---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-04-16"
date: 2020-04-16T19:30:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-04-16 19:30"
tags: [
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "CODEM",
  "donations",
  "food",
  "facebook-live",
  "quarantine-breech",
  "returning-islanders",
  "testing",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-04-16
19:30](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/608687463060501)

Content starts at 2:50.

This is a transcript of the English transmission. There is also a [Spanish
transmission](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/261582301905031)
which I do not translate.

Note that it's been re-ordered and some repetition collapsed.

Donations
---------

Matching Donation:
* Reminder that anything donated to the foundation will be doubled as of
  Friday. Every donation is needed, no matter how small.

Fundraising:
* Current total (excluding the amount pledged for matching):
  USD 192,995; HNL 4,772,013
  * USD 38,795 USD still available as matching funds
* https://themakeitcountfoundation.org/
* Donate to the foundation you're most comfortable with, there are many (for
  example the Sol International).

Utila fundraising:
* http://www.SupportUtila.org
* If you are on Utila in need of food, Tylenol or Aspirin, please send a
  message to @SupportUtila on Facebook

Food:
* Huge amounts given out in the last 5 weeks.
* Access may still be an issue, it's being worked on, let the governor know if
  it's a problem where you are.
* Roatan mayors office has been giving out food stamps.

Use of funds from Make it Count:
* Expecting Mid-June or July before we get through this so it's a long haul.
* Goal is that they're available when everything else starts to run out.
* Governor feels it would be a disservice to spend the collected funds without
  carefully thinking about it and using them responsibly.
  * For example, if the mainland cuts our food off, we'll need a huge amount of
    money to get food from somewhere else.
* Medical equipment purchased from these funds will go to the public hospital

COVID-19
--------

Testing:
* 27 samples taken and negative
  * 3 from Utila, all negative
* 4 pending (including the person who is in custody for entering the islands)
* Getting rapid test kits is the primary goal of the governor so we can ensure
  we don't have COVID-19.
  * Until we do widespread testing we don't really know if there's COVID-19 on
    the islands.
  * Only 31 tests in a population of 150,000 - 180,000
* Still have 69 test kits. Main issue with them is that they need to be sent to
  the mainland to be analysed.
* Some other countries got test kits from Honduras as it's the head of the CA-4
  right now and there are agreements about sharing.

31 days in lockdown:
* Don't really know when it will end at this point, expect a couple of extra
  weeks

Still working on getting rapid test kits. In discussions with a California
organisation.

Police testing:
* Haven't gotten the results back yet

Keeping people off the islands:
* We have patrols and RADAR
* Last step for keeping the islands safe is getting local people back on the
  islands, then will be completely locked down

Restaurants:
* There's a process for opening up restaurants, will likely only be
  pickup/delivery at the start.
* Concerns about sit down:
  * Social distancing and high biosecurity in places which have opened
    restaurants.
  * It's being studied in the capital to work out how to effectively open here

Respirators:
* Have 2 on the islands, at the public hospital
* There are also 2 at the private hospital

Deaths on the islands and are any COVID-19 related:
* There have been 5 in last few weeks
  * Drowning
  * Natural
  * Violent
  * 2 more which he's forgotten the reason for
* None of them have been lung/respiratory related
* Hospital has a clear protocol for determining if people have COVID-19 symptoms
* Still have a priority on testing as that's the only way we'll really know.

CODEM Meeting
-------------

Apologies for any confusion that has been caused. Attempts to open up have
sometimes been premature.

Emergency meeting this afternoon:
* Meeting today was for the CODEM (Comité de Emergencia Municipal), which is
  the  municipal version of the SINAGER, the authority which takes over the
  country during an emergency
  * Mayors of all the municipalities
* History:
  * Lots of sectors have been asking to open up (especially those with hourly
    employees). Roatan Mayors office came out with a plan but it was superseded
    by the federal government a few hours later. 
  * Mayor stepped back on plans to try to open up and followed the ruling that
  * only the 4 industries could be opened.
* Put together a document that would have allowed opening up further.
  * Got a call on Sunday with a verbal confirmation that some could open.
  * Mayor waited a few days to see what would happen before making it official.
  * Unfortunately, it made the national news and caused chaos as other
    municipalities started demanding exceptions. So the federal government shut
    it down.
* One change from the central government is that hardware stores are now
  allowed to be open.
  * Permission for restaurants and construction projects are being worked on.
* Local government understands that you can't go to the supermarket if you have
  no money and is trying as hard as possible to work on it.

Going out:
* Lots of authorities complaining about people not respecting only going out on
  the day of the last digit of your ID.
* Request to please only go out when it's your turn. Remember we've only had 31
  tests done, there's a lot we don't know.

General
-------

Robberies:
* New police chief in Roatan, please send governor or police details so it can
  be followed up on.
* Please report all crimes to the police.

Police patrols instead of roadblocks:
* Will look into it

New chief of police:
* Serrano-Nieto, who was the second in command

Cash in ATMs:
* Plane came into Roatan today to fill them up and they come in regularly.

Cargo ships and produce:
* Only two have been shutdown. There are 13-14 still operating.

Permission for opening businesses:
* If request an exception, the time frame is variable 3-7 days.
  * Will know if approved as you'll get an email reply
* Officers know if you're part of the 5 that are permitted.
* If there's an approval via the exceptions committee, there's a document
  provided as part of that.
* To work out if the store is classified as a hardware store look at local tax
  statement which has the category on it.

Taxes:
* Municipalities are open for paying taxes

Grocery deliveries:
* Up to them and their logistics

Pet grooming:
* Pet health has been operating on emergencies, talk to your vet

Emergency help for Utila:
* There have been a number of emergencies solved in Utila already, there's a
  great team in place.
