---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-03-20"
date: 2020-03-20T16:45:15-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-03-20 16:45"
tags: [
  "airlines",
  "alcohol",
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "curfew",
  "facebook-live",
  "food",
  "martial-law",
  "testing",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-03-20 16:45](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/158686635273631/)

Note that it's been re-ordered and some repetition collapsed.

Airlines, Visas and International Travel
----------------------------------------

General:
* Planes have to come empty and can not stay overnight
* Information will be on the airlines websites. Be on chats and keep track.
* Had 7 flights a day when had lots of tourism, so can handle a lot if the
  airlines send multiple planes to evacuate.
* See announcements on major airline websites

US Airlines:
* Note this is airline based, not citizenship based. Tickets on the airlines
  are good, regardless of final destination if you have an existing
  reservation.
* Discussion with airlines last night
* Airlines have confirmed they're coming, just a matter of when.
  * Departures will be from SAP (San Pedro Sula) and RTB (Roatan)
  * Don't know how many and when yet though
  * American, Delta and United.
* Not Saturday, we will hear in the next couple of days
  * Tickets that are confirmed for tomorrow will not fly at this time
* Honduras doesn't have the capability to fly people out

Canada:
* Westjet confirmed for Sunday
  * Bringing a donation of equipment from Mr Blaine in Canada

UK:
* Not sure, no communication with UK government.
* If you have a ticket on one of the scheduled flights, then yes.

Purchased tickets:
* One of the ways we convinced the airlines was by collecting and sending
  confirmation codes for existing tickets.
* Only two pieces of information required: Confirmation code and current
  location.
* All purchased tickets for a flight that's running are good
  * Not sure if you will have to change your flight or the airline will do it
    for you.
* Not talking about repatriation for US citizens. They're just coming for
  return tickets.
  * Canadian citizens flight on Monday
* Do not change existing tickets, just wait for confirmations.

Will the airport stay open?
* As long as there are flights, operations will be open.
* How long airports will stay open is not on the Honduran authorities.
* President of USA is asking everyone to come home. More likely US will close
  border than Honduras restricting people leaving.

Flight from mainland to rejoin family?
* No, sorry, no inbound flights.
* If want to could both go to USA and rejoin there

Flights from SAP?
* Ticket will be cancelled.
* Recommend don't buy more flights, wait on announcements.

Getting to the planes when they arrive?
* Mostly in Roatan, some on mainland and Utila. Reserved seats on flights going
  through mainland
* Only place we'll need logistics is Utila
  * Will likely move via Utila Dream
* Don't want anyone from other islands to enter Roatan to keep quarantine

Visa Overstay?
* No problem while it's during the red alert
* If you were in penalty, will have a chance to pay and leave

Leaving priorites, can those without tickets get on flights going out?
* People who have tickets will go first
* Medical issues and other priority passengers will go first

Can Avianca book on other airlines?
* Yes
* Lower priorty than existing tickets though

Czechoslovakia?
* Currently with Europeans
* Will likely make a group for them soon as there's a lot

Had a flight to USA through SAP from Utila, how to proceed if no transport?
* Major airlines will transfer to another location, somewhere closer

Canadians
* Borders are closed, not sure how they're affected
* Note from Paul: [Citizens are still permitted into Canada](https://www.ctvnews.ca/health/coronavirus/canada-shutting-the-border-to-most-non-citizens-due-to-covid-19-pm-trudeau-1.4854503)

Private charters (including charter to Miami (MIA))?
* Priority is to get US airlines here
* Hard to do other things as this takes a lot of time
* Generally not involved with private charters
* Don't see any charters in next 3-4 days, they're more complicated to ensure
  that standards are being met.

Spirit airlines?
* They haven't responded yet

Canadians are going, why not the USA?
* When closed down, Canadian consulate called and told Bay Islands that they'd
  already talked to airlines and the airlines would come without people. It was
  very smooth.
* On Monday, lots of people at airport from United, plane arrived without
  passengers and it got to go back. 179 passengers.
* Mainly depends on airlines respecting rules to come in empty.
  * We don't have the facilities/infrastructure to deal with COVID-19 so we
    need to be strict about it.

Will immigration be open next week?
* Send a message, it depends on what you need

Overstay fees?
* If because of red alert, no fee.
* If overstay from before 15th, then you'll have to pay

WhatsApp groups for flights?
* Multiple United chats, 
* United most likely to come quickest and likely to bring multiple plans as
  have lots of passengers here.

Commercial flights next Saturday?
* Way too far, can't tell

Convincing airlines?
* Not a lot, send them emails to ask them to come

Charter approvals?
* Run via Tegucigalpa, the governor is just a bridge
* Please wait patiently

Curfew and Martial Law
----------------------

NB: The governor found out about martial law at the end of the transmission, it
overrides other comments until we resort back to curfew.

Martial law on a nation level?
* New press release. We are now in martial law.
* All of Honduras 18:00 today until the 03:00 on the 29th.
* Not sure how this will change the flights, will keep people posted.
* This means we have to be in our homes, there will be specific times when we
  will be permitted to leave for specific activities.
* Definition of curfew: after 20:00 you can't be outside home
* Definition of martial law: Must stay in home permantently except for the
  small time frame each day to do restricted activities.
  * Likely because people haven't been following instructions

Marshall law, food delivery?
* No food delivery
* Delivery services in general highly limited

Private security with martial law?
* Will check, think they're exempt

Different rules between islands?
* All supposed to be the same
* 06:00 - 20:00 can only be outside for 
  * Buying food and drinks
  * Going to doctor
  * Going to get medicine
  * Getting fuel or gas
  * Going to the bank
* NB: This was for curfew, we are now under martial law so this has changed

**NB:** the following 6 items are probably obsoleted by martial law

Extending 14 day lockdown?
* Hopefully continue with zero cases of COVID-19, _transmission scrambles_

Curfew at West End?
* Currently 7 days, could be extended
* Too early to tell if it'll be extended

7 or 14 days?
* Mainland is 7
* All travel to islands prohibited for 14 days

West End Pharmacy is open?
* It's supposed to be open

Utila 24/7 curfew unless going to supermarket
* Correct, 06:00-20:00 and only necessities

If any of the pending COVID-19 tests come back positive, what will happen?
* Will put us into marshall law

Taxis and other Local Travel
----------------------------

Is it legal to ride taxi with number covered for own errands?
* It's ok, trying to note that it is not a colectivo (picking up people along
  the way)
* Max 2 people

How can multiple people travel in a car, if there's a limit of 2?
* Head of household should go and do purchasing
* Urge that just one member of family do all outside chores

Taxi's to airport?
* Definitely approved

How do multiple people from same hotel get to airport?
* Fine going to airport
* Need to be limited for those staying on island


COVID-19
--------

COVID-19 test results:
* 8 test results sent, waiting on 3
* Sending more tomorrow

Testing and suspicious cases, how does that affect Utila to Roatan?
* 4 tests in Utila, 3 negative, 1 pending

Cases on mainland?
* 24

General Questions
----------------------

Information about employees of businesses which had to cease operations?
* Legislation about this
* Authorities are asking to not let your employees go, that would be a huge
  problem
* Understand it's hard when you don't have sales, the governors companies are
  keeping people as long as possible.
* Crime will skyrocket if businesses lay people off, so please don't

Food bank:
* Media Webster (sp?)
* Council woman on the Roatan mayor's office setting up a food bank
* Please help her get food

Police harassing grocery store owners for selling alcohol
* Alcohol sales are allowed, but must be taken home.
* Just ensure no gatherings and no drinking away from home.

Shipping?
* May be slowed down due to extra procedures, but still working

Additional patrols to prevent boats coming in?
* Yes

Food supplies?
* Yes, still coming from mainland

Resorts closed and can guests be moved so workers can protect themselves?
* Can be analysed
* Agree that it's a priority
* Most resorts are closed, but closing and moving to private housing is where
  things are heading

Citizen projects:
* Mr Keith Will run radio to keep people entertained
* Mr Dean made a [website](http://covid19roatan.com/)

Have Reco and Max waive payments, can't pay bills without income?
* Difficult, both are analysing situation, will let know when we have more info

Paying leases if we've closed operations?
* Legal, sorry can't answer

Semana Santa?
* Definitely cancelled
* Will reschedule and let people know

Insulin for diabetes?
* Get in contact and we'll connect you to the right people

Getting to La Ceiba for treatment after a severe accident?
* Can take a private plane or boat
* Will not be able to return until after the quarantine is over as will have
  been exposed
* Let us know, from there we can make decisions and help

Pregnatant ladies from Utila:
* No hospital in Utila, so coordinating better medical attention for them

Numbers for immigration for number of people on island with visas?
* Don't want to create panic by releasing numbers. It would also damage the
  relationship between the Honduran governement and the US government & the
  airlines.
* Everyone working together to get people home, don't want to fracture that
  relationship
