---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-09-18"
date: 2020-09-18T17:00:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-09-18 17:00"
tags: [
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "facebook-live",
  "hospital",
  "reopening",
  "testing",
  "tourism",
  "travel",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-09-18
17:00](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/1424181924440992/),
[second
part](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/355743235806763/)

Starts at 00:45. Audio in the first video cuts out at 03:36. Second video
content starts at 01:00 and restates the content of the first video.

The Spanish transmission can be found
[here](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/1065953533801842/)

https://www.facebook.com/watch/live/?v=1065953533801842&ref=watch_permalink

Transmissions are Monday and Friday.

COVID-19 Testing and Treatment
------------------------------

Cases:
* Health Department release 76 from Thursday
  * 910 confirmed cases total
    * 151 recovered
    * 17 deaths confirmed
    * 742 active cases
    * 457 pending tests
      * 389 new tests from the last 4-5 days
      * 68 still pending from the last update
  * Only 4 tests processed since the last update
    * 2 new positive cases
    * 5 recovered

Hospitalisation:
* Total of 61 hospitalised patients in Roatan
  * 20 in the hospital
  * 41 in the COVID center
* No information for Guanaja or Utila

Testing:
* If you're getting a test from the public medical system, the doctors have the
  last say as to whether to administer it or not. This is based on their
  evaluation of your symptoms.
* The public lab tests are reserved for those without the economic means to pay
  for one.
* Private labs will sell you tests if you really want one and can afford one.

Seriousness of cases:
* Spread of everything, 7 people in critical condition
* Yesterday 3 people came off VPAP machines and are almost completely recovered
* Main challenge right now is to identify those at risk and get them to the
  COVID-19 center as quickly as possible

Ventilators:
* There are 3 ventilators on the island, donated by USAID
* The public hospital was trained in using these this week

Private PCR test results:
* Private clinics which opt to report their test results to the federal
  government are included in the official reporting statistics.
* Some clinics are choosing not to report their results and they, obviously,
  are not included.

Cemesa or Woods Clinic:
* No known COVID-19 patients at either of these clinics

Travel and Immigration
----------------------

Immigration website:
* Been giving lots of people problems, the governors team is aware of it
* Please report any issues to the governor so they can contact the immigration
  office in Tegucigalpa to ensure that travel requirements are registered
* The travel volunteer group is preparing a checklist of items so that everyone
  knows what's required depending on where they're coming from

Testing for travel:
* PCR is preferred
* Voluntary quarantine for those coming in on a quick test

General
-------

Michael McCarry:
* Governor has been working closely with him as he's now on Roatan
* Two X-Ray machines which was organised by Mr McCarry was delivered to the
  Roatan public hospital.
* Spent time showing Mr McCarry what the Bay Islands healthcare system looks
  like given he's organised so many donations.

Digit System:
* As of next week there should be two digits per day
  * The official press release for this change should come out over the weekend
* We still need to be careful, especially as it's the peak on the islands
  * Seeing lots of dangerous behaviour such as an entire family in a car where
    only one person is authorised for the day.
  * This particularly makes it hard for police.
* Tourists are exempt but need to show a hotel or car reservation
  * Those who own a home but don't have residency are technically residents for
    these purposes
  * There has been an incident of the police ignoring the tourist exemption, a
    denuncia is being filed to ensure the police enforce the regulations
    properly.

Central government evaluation:
* Expecting a number of changes soon, which should provide better care
* In collaboration with the medical system and mayors officers
* 50 new hospital beds for the COVID-19 center were brought over by the
  government team on Tuesday or Wednesday

Restaurants:
* Yes, it's difficult that the entire family can't go together to a restaurant
  at the moment if they don't all have the same last digit on their ID.
* Most restaurants are providing food to go. This is the best approach at this
  time.

Crime:
* Police reinforcements have been promised, but no date has yet been provided
