---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-11-10"
date: 2020-11-10T06:30:02-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-11-10 06:30"
tags: [
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "facebook-live",
  "hospital",
  "hurricane-eta",
  "reopening",
  "testing",
  "travel",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-11-10
06:30](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/1319734888370500/)

Starts at 02:00

The Spanish transmission can be found
[here](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/1037636896662341/)

COVID-19 Testing and Treatment
------------------------------

Cases:
* The actual numbers are significantly higher than this.
  * These are only PCR, it does not cover rapid testing or those who don't get
    tested.
  * This also only includes public lab numbers, private labs are mostly not
    sharing information about test results.
* Health Department release 92, released 2020-11-09
  * Changes
    * 164 new cases
  * 2,154 confirmed cases total
    * 278 recovered
    * 38 deaths
    * 1,738 active cases
* Tests
  * 118 pending before the update
  * 294 new kits sent for processing
  * 299 processed
  * 113 still pending

Hospitalisation:
* Total of 14 hospitalised patients in Roatan
  * 5 in the hospital
  * 9 in the COVID center
* Much improved over the peak of 67 cases a few months ago
* No official information for Guanaja or Utila
* Does not include private hospital numbers as these have not been supplied to
  the governor

Medical brigades:
* Started as 66 doctors from the mainland.
* Partnership between COPECO and the Department of Health
* Last of these doctors left today to work on recovery from hurricane Eta
  * Shelters are breeding grounds for COVID-19
  * Cortez is particularly badly hit
* Local medical groups will continue with the medical brigades as they have
  been very effective at finding new cases of COVID-19 before it's too late.

Travel
------

Entering Honduras:
* Still required to have a COVID-19 test 72 hours before travel
* Bay Islands are trying to get the test requirements removed
  * Tests can be very difficult to get, such as in Canada

United: Flights supposed to start this month

Avianca: No details yet

Lockdown: There may be increased restrictions if there's another wave, but a
full lockdown is unlikely due to the economic impact

General
-------

The last transmission was 4 weeks ago and the governor has been mostly taking
care of things that had been put on hold due to the pandemic.

The COVID-19 response team is made up of volunteers, both local and expat,
dedicating time to keep everyone informed.

Governor Silvestri did not have COVID-19. Has done at least 9 tests and has
been negative each time.

Curfew:
* Curfew is still in place from 22:00 - 05:00.
* Number system suspended due to hurricane Eta.
* Some banks were still asking for numbers, but this has been suspended too

Hurricane Eta:
* Thanks to everyone who's sent supplies to help those in the mainland
* Organisations are working to get help to La Ceiba Planta and Cortez areas
  * If you are sending something to help from another country, please reach out
    to the governor to ensure that customs doesn't end up delaying the arrival
    of the assistance.
    * Mistakes are much harder to fix once a container reaches a customs
      warehouse.

Facebook transmissions:
* Poll on the governors page about how to handle these transmissions
* The poll was not live yet as of the writing of this post

Muelle de Cabotaje: One cargo boat got stuck, but others are passing through OK

Fundraisers:
* Make It Count Foundation has been updated
  * Work is being done to fully audit everything done by the foundation, to
    provide full transparency, and it will be shared shortly
  * Money is still being raised for COVID-19 relief
* Support Utila is running a [campaign for
  Eta](https://www.facebook.com/donate/403176877486923/)
