---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-04-09"
date: 2020-04-09T15:50:00-07:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-04-09 15:30"
tags: [
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "curfew",
  "diving",
  "donations",
  "facebook-live",
  "fishing",
  "local-business",
  "reco",
  "returning-islanders",
  "testing",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-04-09
15:30](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/551218365581430)

The is a transcript of the English transmission. There is also a [Spanish
transmission](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/722531095172320)
which I do not translate.

Note that it's been re-ordered and some repetition collapsed.

Donations
---------

Fundraising:
* Current total: USD 123,810; HNL 3,068,581
* https://themakeitcountfoundation.org/
* Two more substantial donations promised today

Utila fundraising:
* http://www.SupportUtila.org

Curfew and Quarantine
---------------------

Reminder: It only takes one case to wipe out an island.

Curfew has been extended to the 19th of April.

There has also been a change to the shopping days and which numbers are
allocated to each day. Please see the [curfew](https://hn.otoh.org/curfew/)
page for details.

Fishing and Diving:
* Roatan specific, Utila needs to work out its own plan
* Must be in a private vessel with private equipment and small groups
* Must communicate to the patronato (community board) and supply them with
  a picture of the boat and hours that you want to be out.
  * This allows the authorities to avoid sending out patrol boats for false
    alarms. This will make it a lot easier to focus resources on actual
    problems.
  * Utila also has community boards. 

Utila Repatriation:
* Mayor has autonomy in the municipality
* 6 people are in 20 day quarantine in 3 cays, starting yesterday
* Governor was informed after the fact
* Roatan is waiting on rapid response test kits before they do anything similar.

Business exemptions:
* If your business is not in the standard exemptions, you need to file for an
  exemption through the chamber of commerce.

Restaurants:
* Currently meant to be closed
* Discussions with Tegucigalpa about bio security measures are ongoing

Banks:
* Will be open on Friday, even though Semana Santa
* Not expected to be open on Saturday

Travel
------

Flights to the USA:
* 13th and 15th of April
* San Pedro Sula (SAP) to Houston (IAH)

Returning to the islands:
* There's a list for people who are returning, please join it.

Leaving the islands:
* There are flights off the islands for those who need them. For example, the
  those who were trying to take the ferry to the mainland are flying out
  tomorrow.

Visa:
* If your visa expires during the state of emergency there will be no fines
  when you leave.

Repatriation Flights:
* Honduras is poor and it's unlikely there will be paid repatriation flights
* Flights coming into the country (such as the ones into SAP and going back to
  the USA) can bring in anyone, arrivals just need to quarantine.

Car Rental:
* Can be considered essential
* Still need to ask for an exception

General
-------

Long term plan:
* Primary goal is to reactivate the local economy as soon as possible.
* Need to be sure that the virus is not here, which will be possible once bulk
  rapid testing is available.
* If we don't have COVID-19, that'll be a huge attraction in the future and,
  hopefully, a tourism boost when the islands reopen.
* Expect airport first, then cruise ships when things return to normal

RECO:
* Roatan Electric Company
* Meetings yesterday with them, which is why there was not transmission.
* March, April and May are critical point in the crisis as these are expected
  to be the main months where people do not earn any money.
* RECO is allowing customers who are unable to pay for these months now to
  defer payment.
  * 12 month payment plan on these three months, starting in October.
  * Applies to businesses as well as residential.
  * If you can pay, please do as otherwise it puts too much strain on the
    company and will make it harder to help those in need.
* Exceptions:
  * Businesses which have been open and thus earning money:
    * Pharmacies
    * Supermarkets
    * Petrol stations
    * Banks

Cargo Boats:
* Some crew are not staying on the ship of cargo boats which is causing
  problems.
* There will be a new guideline limiting the cargo companies that are allowed
  to bring cargo in order to fix this.
  * This is specifically for Roatan.

Police from SAP on the island
* Waiting to hear back from the police. They should not be coming onto the
  island and it's being followed up on.
* If someone did stay on the island, they will be detained, there's no
  exceptions

Police Patrols
* Currently focussing a lot of time on reports of people smuggling
* This is the main reason for changing the rules around fishing, it will leave
  the police with more time to focus on other crimes such as theft.
