---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-05-29"
date: 2020-05-29T19:00:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-05-29 19:00"
tags: [
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "biosecurity",
  "covid-19",
  "facebook-live",
  "local-business",
  "quarantine-breech",
  "returning-islanders",
  "testing",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-05-29
19:00](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/454530418731949)

Starts at 01:30

The Spanish tramission can be found [here](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/294696068588920/)


Update for relief effort expected 15:30, but may be delayed due to meetings.

Testing
-------

COVID-19 tests:
* 1 active case
* 58 negative test results
* 7 pending tests
* Several more sent today, no exact amount
* Typically 1-2 days for a test to be shipped and then typically 48 hours to
  process (but there are reports that it could take 10-14 days at this time)
  * Latest batch is taking longer than usual
  * Governor is following up as it's been 2 weeks

Rapid Response Tests:
* Not sharing rapid response results as they are less accurate and the governor
  doesn't want to alarm anyone.
* Will report once PCR results are returned.

PCR test reader:
* Have been unable to purchase one as yet

Travel
------

Tourists returning?
* Are hoping for August

Plans:
* Not public yet
* Will make it public once it's finalised
* Federal government is talking late June to start soft opening locally

Airport reopening:
* Not sure when at this time.

Hondurans with an expired work visa:
* Go to the Honduran consulate

People Smuggling
----------------

Latest cases:
* 8 people arrived today
  * All were sent back to the mainland
  * A patrol boat took a photo of them and reported them. Thanks to the
    reporter.
  * There's little evidence that people who arrive illegally will self report,
    most are reported by others.
* Everyone who arrives irregularly will be returned to the mainland.
* Quarantine zones are completely booked
  * There are currently 5 active quarantine groups
  * Not just about a place to sleep and food
  * Doctors to treat people and security forces to ensure people don't leave
    are also required
* Only 115 police at the start of quarantine for the entire Bay Islands. So
  very limited resources to work with.
* The operation to bring people back will continue until everyone is back.
  * If you have an urgent case, please contact the governor to plead your case
    for being brought back earlier.
* We need to protect our islands and smuggling people in is very disrespectful
  to those working to keep the islands safe.
  * Many of those patrolling are putting their own money into this, buying the
    fuel for the boats etc

Why weren't earlier illegal arrivals sent back?
* There was space previously. There isn't now.

Penalty for illegal entry:
* 6 months to 2 years is the potential sentence
* Everything is slower while we're in the pandemic
* Governor is focussed on managing the outbreak, that doesn't mean there won't
  be repercussions

Roatan east end:
* Report of lots of boats at night
* Governor will talk to the east end patrol group and find out more

General
-------

Everyone with a mask program:
* Shipment arrived with 40% of the allocation for the Bay Islands
* At the moment, just Roatan, rest will be for the other islands in the
  department
  * 12,000 masks to Roatan municipality, 4,800 to the Santos Guardiola
    municipality
  * Will do a single shipment to all the islands once the masks arrived
* Will go house to house and provide a mask for everyone who can not afford one
  with a mask.
* Reusable masks, can be washed up to 15 times.

Saturday and Sunday:
* Still have a positive case, so still have a lockdown.
* If the tests that are currently out come back positive will have to continue
  lockdown
* Working to reopen as soon as there's no COVID-19 on the islands again
* Governor suggests watching the daily federal updates as they are when
  department COVID-19 numbers are released. This is also the time when
  department officials, such as the governor, learn about confirmed cases.

Banks extending grace period for credit cards and loans:
* This is the plan
* There's anticipation that things will return to normal around August

Sending the governor a private message:
* Send via the governors Facebook page

Helping patrols with fuel costs:
* This is under discussion

Loud motorcycles
* Will look into it

RADAR:
* Tough to move from the west end as there's lots of movement there
