---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-08-17"
date: 2020-08-17T07:30:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-08-17 07:30"
tags: [
  "airlines",
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "facebook-live",
  "quarantine",
  "reopening",
  "testing",
  "tourism",
  "transport",
  "travel",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-08-17
07:30](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/301139127768992)

Starts at 02:00

The Spanish transmission can be found
[here](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/298956344524881/)

Transmissions are Monday and Friday.

COVID-19 Testing and Treatment
------------------------------

Cases:
* From bay islands health department press release 60, from 2020-08-13 (no
  update since the last transmission from the governor). All numbers below are
  the same as last time.
* 153 PCR were pending in central government
  * 25 processed
  * 128 are left
* 255 total cases for the Bay Islands
* 98 recuperated (PCR confirmed)
* 3 died with positive COVID-19 tests
* 154 active cases, which includes those who are still sick and those who may
  have recovered but we don't have a PCR confirmation for that

Travel and Immigration
----------------------

Airport:
* Open today
* American Airlines 2020-08-22
* United and Delta are working on adding flights again, will let us know when
  they do so
* Mainland flights are also going to be regular from now on
* Please bring your tests for national flights
* Tests are mandatory for international flights

Meeting people at the airport:
* The airport is heavily limiting those who are allowed at the airport to those
  with tickets.
* This means you won't be able to meet your family at the airport when they
  arrive.

Tourists and testing:
* Press release 14 describes the process
  * Item 6C: The person who determines whether an arrival goes to quarantine or
    not is the health authorities.
    * International Sanitary Office will determine this at the airport.
    * They have said that a PCR test will negate the need for quarantine, but
      it is case by case.
* Test results can be presented via phone or printed, either works
* Tourists also need to do an [online pre-check](https://prechequeo.inm.gob.hn)
  with immigration.
* If a tourist arrives and only has a rapid test, they will be limited to
  their hotel for 14 days.
  * They will be able to leave their rooms, as long as they stay on the hotel
    premises.
* PCR tested tourists do not require quarantine
* Try to get as close to 72 hours as possible, but the authorities will work
  with people as much as possible
  * It is meant to be 72 hours from when the test is taken
  * For example, it is expected that getting a test on Monday, with results and
    flight on Friday and flight Saturday will be sufficient.

Domestic arrivals:
* Bay Islands strongly requests that everyone coming from the mainland get at
  least a rapid test before coming over.
* CM Airlines are not asking for a test, but the Islands are asking people to
  do so anyway

Boats returning to Honduras:
* Send the governor a private message and he will put you in contact with the
  marine merchant.

September Flights:
* None approved yet as have to leave some room to shut down again if things get
  out of hand again and it becomes necessary
  * For example Bahamas has shut down again 3 times again already
* Hoping that we have waited past the peak and we are good to go. If this pilot
  month goes well, then flights we continue into September.

Utila PCR requirement:
* Utila requires a PCR test
* This is a municipal requirement to minimise the outbreak on the island

Self/hotel policing quarantine:
* There's some concern around self policing not working
* Governor thinks that with the circulation limitations it will work

People coming to the islands looking for work:
* The current travel arrangements are expensive and, being tourism based
  there's no work right now so it is highly unlikely that people will pay all
  that money to come to the islands and look for jobs that they don't already
  have.
  * There are no cruise ships, which are the main reason people come to the
    islands looking for work
  * More people want to leave than come to the islands
* People coming in are on vacation or really need to come to the island

Ferry from Roatan to La Ceiba:
* Tentative date of 2020-08-24, not confirmed at this time

General
-------

Curfew:
* The last update declared that Honduras would be using the number system for
  two more weeks.
  * We are in week two of that
  * The hope is that this will be the last week
* Curfew is now from 07:00 until 20:00 instead of 17:00, which has improved
  life for businesses

Donations:
* Make It Count Foundation:
  * USD 246,000 in cash
  * USD 516,000 in kind equipment donations
  * A big thank you to everyone who donated to help the Bay Islands in this time
* Also remember Support Utila and Support Guanaja for island specific donations

Sports
* Sports are complexes are allowed to reopen

Crime:
* 911 calls are not working
* Governor will investigate

Churches:
* Churches are **not** allowed to open at this time

Trish Simmons has been helping in flights, quarantine and immigration teams.
