---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-08-14"
date: 2020-08-14T16:00:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-08-14 16:00"
tags: [
  "airlines",
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "facebook-live",
  "medical",
  "quarantine",
  "reopening",
  "testing",
  "transport",
  "travel",
  "triage-center",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-08-14
16:00](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/743877499798698)

Starts at 02:15

The Spanish transmission can be found
[here](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/729039894326131/)

Transmissions are Monday and Friday.

COVID-19 Testing and Treatment
------------------------------

Cases:
* From bay islands health department press release 60
* 153 PCR were pending in central government
  * 25 processed
  * 128 are left
* 255 total cases for the Bay Islands
* 98 recuperated (PCR confirmed)
* 3 died with positive COVID-19 tests
* 154 active cases, which includes those who are still sick and those who may
  have recovered but we don't have a PCR confirmation for that

Information doctors and nurses want to relay
* 2 critical COVID-19 cases since Monday 2020-08-10
  * Took 8-10 days to get to the hospital; one thought was dengue, the other
    thought was something else
  * It's important to go to the clinic/hospital quickly with this disease, even
    if you think it might be dengue or some other disease please get checked
  * If you have any symptoms of COVID-19, please go to the triage clinic on
    your island ASAP.
    * The Roatan clinic is currently 07:00 - 19:00, they are working on getting
      this to 24/7
* First VPAP machine was used on one of these cases, they were on the machine
  for 2 days in a critical condition.
  * Fortunately they have recovered
  * There are 100 VPAP machines on the Bay Islands, although we're hoping not
    to use them.
* Starting medical brigades in the communities soon

Travel and Immigration
----------------------

Airport:
* Open as of Monday 2020-08-17
* 2 scheduled flights
  * 30 people on a charter from Ft Lauderdale
  * American Airlines flight from Miami on Saturday 2020-08-22. This is a
    confirmed flight
* Expecting much more regular local flights
  * This means it's even more critical to wear masks

Other airlines returning to Roatan Airport:
* They're all waiting to see what happens with the American Airlines flights
* Expect service to resume in the near future

Travel testing and quarantine:
* The health department determines who goes to quarantine or not
* A digital copy of your test is sufficient, it doesn't need to be printed
* Requirements for the Bay Islands:
  * Need a negative COVID-19 test within 72 hours of travel. This can be rapid
    or PCR to allow for the variation in testing availability in the countries
    people are coming from.
    * It was implied that results posted within 72 hours of travel (even if
      they take a week to get to you) would be sufficient. The islands are
      trying to be cognisant of the problems getting PCR tests in the USA,
      which has the most difficulty in this.
  * If you have a quick test, there will be a requirement to quarantine (stay
    in hotel or home)
    * COVID-19 doesn't show up on most of these tests until people have had it
      for 8-9 days
  * Will not need to do quarantine if you have a PCR test
* Recommendations:
  * If you're coming for vacation and on a short timeline, please get a PCR test
  * If you don't have access to a PCR test, are coming home or don't care about
    quarantine then a quick test will be sufficient
* If you have a PCR to enter Honduras, you are required to get a quick test
  for internal travel to the Bay Islands (e.g. flying from San Pedro Sula to
  Utila)
  * This is due to the limited medical infrastructure in the Bay Islands
  * Show both the PCR and quick test to the airport official
  * Quick tests are easy to purchase at pharmacies on the mainland now about
    USD 30
* Anyone doing quarantine will do so at their final destination. For example,
  this means no longer going to Water Key for Utila.
  * Quarantine is 14 days for those coming in using rapid tests
* Heath Miller of Support Utila can help coordinate for those returning there
* Hope based strategy on tourists quarantining at their final destination.
* For those who can't get PCR tests done quickly in the country they're coming
  from, PCR tests can be done quickly in La Ceiba for around USD 250

Flying into Honduras:
* No permits required to enter Honduras, it's back to the 30/60/90 day visa
* Municipalities may have extra requirements

Tourist circulation:
* Not clear yet whether tourists will be confined to their resort or on the
  number system
* It seems unlikely that the problem will be circulation, but more whether the
  place you want to go is open

Reopening plan for businesses:
* 90 page document created by chamber of commerce
* If you are a business who hasn't gotten a copy and are not getting responses
  from the chamber of commerce, then contact the governor and he will see about
  getting you a copy
* It is currently being translated to English, once that is done it will also
  be posted to the Governors Facebook page

General
-------

Security:
* Know things have been going on for some time and some people are scared
* There was a home invasion recently
* Outstanding requests from central government, but these haven't been
  fulfilled (probably because the mainland is having significant issues at this
  time)
* Security has been a problem for a while, looking to install cameras to help
  with this as well as other measures.
  * Several projects are, unfortunately, need to know but the governor is
    hoping to complete them soon and tell us about them.
* Not investing donation money in CCTV or other similar measures as they are
  prohibitively expensive.
  * Covering the whole of Roatan with CCTV would cost around USD 2,000,000.
  * There's only about USD 12,000 left in donated funds.
  * The pandemic has hit the finances of the islands hard. As an example of
    where we're at, Roatan mayors office has had to take out a USD 1,500,000
    loan to cover expenses due to the loss in revenue.
* There have been a number of security related committees on the Bay Islands
  * Security is one of the most difficult things to change
  * Many recommendations have been made back to central government, but most of
    them have not been taken up.
* If you have any information about crimes, please let the authorities know.
  * If you don't feel safe informing the police, please message governor
    Silvestri or the mayor of your municipality and they will forward it
    anonymously.
* Need to try to get as many of these people behind bars. There have been
  constant shipments of criminals off the islands during the pandemic and
  there's a strong desire to continue doing this.
* Things will continue to get worse until the economy improves

Policing:
* Only real police are national police, which are centralised.
  * These are the only police enforcing safety and security
  * These police are rotated every 6 months to help reduce corruption
  * They take orders exclusively from central government, which can override
    municipality concerns.
    * As an example, when the police came onto the island during lock down,
      they did so because they were told to by the central government ministry
* Municipal police job is entirely to enforce municipal ordinances (such as
  when businesses are allowed to be open)
* No state level police
* Different teams of national police:
  * Investigation team: investigates crimes, this is 6 people in the Bay Islands
  * Transit police: on the roads, determining if people have licenses etc
  * General police: take care of people who have been detained, entrances to
    hospitals etc
* Ministry of security is in charge of national police. They are supposed to
  work with municipalities to determine policing requirements.
* Police reform needs to be done at the central (congressional) level
  * Many islanders have tried to decentralise police, but this has not been
    successful
  * Out of 128 members of congress, the Bay Islands only has 1, so little
    influence

Community outreach program:
* Regular video calls to teach people about biosecurity
* Hoteliers met to discuss biosecurity today

Circulation rules:
* Only the airports have changed for the weekend
* General circulation is still the number system and weekends are stay at home
* Next week will still be the number system. Not sure about the week after.

