---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-04-14"
date: 2020-04-14T15:30:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-04-14 15:30"
tags: [
  "airlines",
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "donations",
  "facebook-live",
  "quarantine-breech",
  "returning-islanders",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-04-14
15:30](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/662811707866382)

The is a transcript of the English transmission. There is also a [Spanish
transmission](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/956620161418610)
which I do not translate.

Note that it's been re-ordered and some repetition collapsed.

Donations
---------

Matching Donation:
* Reminder that anything donated to the foundation will be doubled as of
  Friday. Every donation is needed, no matter how small.

Fundraising:
* Current total (excluding the amount pledged for matching):
  USD 184,960; HNL 4,585,010
  * Including the matching funds: USD 243,960
  * USD 43,950 USD still available as matching funds
* https://themakeitcountfoundation.org/
* Donate to the foundation you're most comfortable with, there are many (for
  example the Sol International).

Utila fundraising:
* http://www.SupportUtila.org
*  If you are on Utila in need of food, Tylenol or Aspirin, please send a
   message to @SupportUtila on Facebook

COVID-19
--------

Testing
* 27 samples taken and negative
* 4 pending (including the person who is in custody for entering the islands)

Police officers that entered from the mainland:
* Tests haven't come back yet
* Only came in contact with 3 people, all of whom are in quarantine

Test kits:
* Haven't gotten any new kits yet

Person who came ashore from the boats:
* Did not have a fever
* Is in quarantine
* Second person found to breech the island quarantine, both are in custody
* Reporting is claiming this person has COVID-19, but it takes 2-3 days to test
  and those results have not returned yet.

Getting Test to the mainland:
* Taken in special flights by the airforce or private plane

Travel
------

United Flights in May:
* Please speak directly to the airlines

Flights from Houston to Roatan:
* This is up to the US government to restart

Flying to La Ceiba:
* Possibly, Mayor in La Ceiba changes his mind though so may not be successful
* Consider flying to San Pedro instead

Getting back to Bay Islands:
* Still working on it

General
-------

Medical services:
* Tour of church in French Harbour, which is where any COVID-19 positive people
  will be treated.
* Hired 50 new medical staff, include doctors, nurses, assistants,
  microbiologists and lab techs

Cargo Boats:
* Some companies have been suspended indefinitely for not taking management of
  the pandemic seriously
* Any boat that does not have facilities for staff to sleep will not be
  permitted to enter the Bay Islands.
* Many boats suspended for not complying to requirements

Opening restaurants:
* Still working on it

Police:
* New police chief named today for Roatan, was the second in command

Taxes:
* Municipality of Roatan is open to pay taxes
* They are aiming to do it all by phone, but are providing bio security for
  those who need to pay in person
* Numbers will be posted on Facebook soon
* Working on getting federal registry open
* Will follow up on Santos Guardiola as not currently familiar with what's
  happening tax wise there.
