---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-09-12"
date: 2020-09-12T07:30:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-09-12 07:30"
tags: [
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "facebook-live",
  "ferry",
  "hospital",
  "reopening",
  "testing",
  "tourism",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-09-12
07:30](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/705572000172410/)

Starts at 02:30

The Spanish transmission can be found
[here](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/319960909274023/)

Transmissions are Monday and Friday.

COVID-19 Testing and Treatment
------------------------------

Cases:
* Health Department release 71 from Thursday
  * 1 new case
  * 2 new deaths
  * 504 confirmed cases total
    * 127 recovered
    * 12 deaths
    * 365 active cases
    * 19 more people recovered as of last night (there's not yet been a press
      release)

Hospitalisation:
* Some people are being treated in the hallways of the hospital, these are
  people who don't need hospitalisation, but usually something simple like a
  small amount of oxygen.
* There were 30 people in the public hospital, there was some rearrangement and
  there are now only 17 in the hospital COVID treatment area
* The COVID-19 treatment center is up to 33 patients
  * The center didn't have the full capacity of patients due to a lack of
    oxygen
  * Make it count foundation funds were used to rent 40 new oxygen cylinders,
    which has allowed making use of more beds in the COVID-19 treatment center

Peak of COVID-19 transmission:
* The Bay Islands are in a peak of COVID-19 cases. It's particularly dangerous
  to go out now.
* Those who have been staying at home or have preconditions which make them
  particularly susceptible are urged to continue to stay at home to avoid
  exposure.

Travel and Immigration
----------------------

Ferries:
* Back to daily service as of next week
  * This week was trial runs
* Trips running:
  * Utila to Roatan (Utila Dream)
  * Utila to La Ceiba (Utila Dream)
  * Roatan to La Ceiba (Galaxy)
* Ferries have been moving oxygen cylinders for free

American Airlines:
* As of 2020-10-10 they will use their 162 seat plane rather than the 80 seat
  Embraer
* On 2020-11-04 a Wednesday flight will be added.

The number system doesn't apply to travel (planes and ferries), only to
circulating around town

Travel and COVID-19 exposure:
* The mainland is starting to reduce their COVID-19 treatment capacity as
  they've passed the peak.
* The governor suspects there's a higher possibility of someone coming to the
  islands getting COVID-19 on island than bringing it with them right now as
  the islands are at peak while other areas are recovering.

COVID-19 test to leave Honduras:
* Testing is dependent on the destination countries
* For example, no test is currently required to go to the USA

General
-------

Circulation:
* Tomorrow the number system expires, there hasn't been any update yet
* Expect updates tomorrow, there has been no indication as to whether the
  number system will continue.

Rotary donation:
* Group who comes to Honduras annually to do medical brigades
* Couldn't come this year due to the pandemic
* Rotary group has donated gloves, dentistry equipment and medical chemicals
  * Gloves have been particularly difficult to get and they're a high use
    items.

Locals using resorts:
* There's a big wave of local tourism right now
* Anyone with a reservation is exempt from the circulation number requirements
