---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-07-27"
date: 2020-07-27T07:30:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-07-27 07:30"
tags: [
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "facebook-live",
  "quarantine",
  "reopening",
  "transport",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-07-27
07:30](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/783053209102405)

Starts at 02:00

The Spanish transmission can be found
[here](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/644202222859797/)

Transmissions are Monday and Friday.

COVID-19 Testing and Treatment
------------------------------

Cases:
* Last press release from the federal government about cases was number 51 on
  Friday. All numbers are from this.
* 171 PCR confirmed cases
  * 4 cases last night, 2 are Utila
  * All Bay Islands now have COVID-19
* 57 Recovered
* 1 Death
* 113 Active cases (may be sick, may be recovered but not yet tested)
* Not providing pending cases, it fluctuates a lot.
* Still pushing to get a PCR machine for the islands so we can turn around
  tests faster.

Statistics:
* Request to change report to the number of symptomatic cases, severity and
  medical status is being forwarded to the federal government.

Travel and Immigration
----------------------

Airport inspection:
* Initial outlook positive, governor was not supplied the full report as
  confidential at this time
* Some areas of improvement
* No date yet, this is determined by the head of air traffic control and
  SINAGER
  * Date won't come until after the recommendations made by the inspectors are
    carried out.

Immigration office:
* Open in San Pedro Sula and La Ceiba
* If there's an emergency (only those with overstay fees), immigration officers
  are available at the airport.
  * Please do not go to the airport unless you are traveling and need to

Ferry:
* Once the flights reopen, the governor expects the ferry to reopen at the same
  time.
* Can look into doing another ferry run to return islanders.
  * About 45 people already on the list
  * This list is managed by the marine merchant

General
-------

Curfew:
* SINAGER has extended stay at home decree to 2020-08-02
  * Expect that it will be renewed until you hear otherwise
* 07:00-17:00 allowed to circulate if it's your number
* Todays number is 1, Friday is 5
* Saturday and Sunday are shutdown

Utila:
* Governor brought extra masks, a VPAP machine and other supplies.

Guanaja:
* Will bring over supplies soon, no date yet

Reopening:
* Honduras has a centralised government, all decisions on reopening are made
  there and passed down to the states
  * Governor and local officials wish to reopen, but the federal government
    does not yet consider it safe.
* Working on opening the airport, thinks everything will follow from that
* Not providing tentative dates as if they're pushed back people get angry
* As soon as there is a confirmed date, it will be shared
