---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-04-17"
date: 2020-04-17T16:00:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-04-17 16:00"
tags: [
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "donations",
  "facebook-live",
  "quarantine-breech",
  "returning-islanders",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-04-17
16:00](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/253444455794620)

The is a transcript of the English transmission. There is also a [Spanish
transmission](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/1091081784559675)
which I do not translate.

Note that it's been re-ordered and some repetition collapsed.

Next scheduled transmission is Monday.

Donations
---------

Matching Donation:
* Reminder that anything donated to the foundation will be doubled as of
  Friday. Every donation is needed, no matter how small.

Fundraising:
* Current total (excluding the amount pledged for matching):
  USD 199,195; HNL 4,945,752
  * USD 37,345 USD still available as matching funds
* https://themakeitcountfoundation.org/
* Donate to the foundation you're most comfortable with, there are many (for
  example the Sol International).
* First project will be presented to the oversight committee soon.

Utila fundraising:
* http://www.SupportUtila.org
* If you are on Utila in need of food, Tylenol or Aspirin, please send a
  message to @SupportUtila on Facebook

Some food drives, such as the Sol Foundation, are also providing food for pets

COVID-19
--------

Testing:
* 32 samples taken and negative
  * 1 Guanaja
  * 23 Roatan (including the man from the mayors office and the people who came
    into contact with the police)
  * 5 Santos Guardiola
  * 3 Utila
* Governor is prioritising getting rapid test kits so allow for broad testing.
* Rapid response kits have a 40-45% success rate, so are looking into getting a
  highly accurate PCR based systems in order to do a blended testing regimen.
  * PCR machines are USD 15,000 - 35,000
  * Are looking to get one or two for the Bay Islands
  * If you know someone who deals in PCR test kit analysis machines, please
    contact the governor.

Where COVID-19 cases will be handled:
* Roatan, Utila and Santos Guarodola all have isolation facilities
* Guanaja is working on one

Pre-testing people trying to enter the Bay Islands:
* Protocols vary globally, so we need to be sure that anyone tested has been
  tested to a level the islands are happy with.
* Main goal is to test people when they arrive, do rapid testing and if someone
  returns positive then do the PCR test.

General
-------

If you have been volunteering send a bio to the governor.

Yesterday's CODEM meeting was the result of the second attempt to get
permission for the Bay Islands to open for local commerce. A third attempt is
being worked on.
