---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-03-31"
date: 2020-03-31T15:15:15-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-03-31 15:15"
tags: [
  "airlines",
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "curfew",
  "donations",
  "facebook-live",
  "local-business",
  "segmented-circulation",
  "testing",
  "travel",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-03-31
15:15](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/624285591482567)

First 16 minutes are in English, then skip to 52 minutes to get to mostly
English.

Note that it's been re-ordered and some repetition collapsed.

Donations
---------

Current donations:
* Anonymous donor donated USD 100,000, HNL 2,669,109.
  * Challenged someone to match
* Current total (after 48 hours): USD 106,978.33; HNL 2,646,034
* USD 3,071, HNL 75,959 raised separately just for Utila
* We don't have a goal but we're going to be at least 60 days before the next
  tourists so we need a lot of help
* Accountability: that's the goal. Only funding for the following:
  * Food
  * Medical Equipment
  * Medicine
  * Anything left over at the end goes to building a hospital

Curfew
------

Federal government:
* Exception for specific businesses rather than the whole municipalities.
  They were worried about how to give an exception for some municipalities but
  not others to decided to do it at the business level.

Credentials:
* Please make something stating an employee works for you to make their and the
  police's jobs easier

Curfew runs 18:00 - 06:00

COVID-19
-------

Tests:
* 23 negative results.

Flights and Travel
------------------

Last flight out was today:
* Arrived empty just to pick up passengers
* Airlines: United, Air Trans, Sunwing, American Airlines, Westjet, Cayman Air 
* More than 3,000 people moved in 16 days.

Ferry to La Ceiba:
* Some confusion, maybe people were scared, but the ferry got sent back.

General
-------

Letter of exception for business owners:
* Send letter to Chamber of Tourism or Commerce.
* Put in how many employees and hours you'd like to open
* Primarily for hardware stores and other important services.

Utila hardware stores:
* No date to be open yet (not mentioned, but file for an exception as on Roatan)
