---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-03-27"
date: 2020-03-27T15:15:15-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-03-26 15:15"
tags: [
  "airlines",
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "facebook-live",
  "testing",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-03-27
15:15](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/280992849581495)

Skip to 33 minutes to get to mostly English (there's some English spread
throughout the Spanish part too).

Note that it's been re-ordered and some repetition collapsed.

COVID-19
-------

Cases:
* 16 negative, 6 pending
  * Pending tests are all from Roatan

Flights and Travel
------------------

Standby:
* Were able to fill the plane with standbys.

Canada:
* Air Transat flight in the works, not confirmed.
* Go on United flight if can as this is not confirmed

USA:
* American:
  * Last flight to Dallas today
* Delta:
  * Not sure about flights on 2020-04-04, they haven't reached out to us and we
    don't currently have flights scheduled after 2020-03-31.
* United:
  * Another full plane
  * There are still tickets available.

Utila:
* Malfunction of the plane. 20 people didn't make the flight
  * Replacement didn't get a permit in time
* Can only come by plane, please do not come by boat.
* Can only come if you have a seat on that days plane.
* 40 for RTB tomorrow includes the 20 from Friday
* Other companies are getting together to make sure we have options

Going to mainland:
* Reach out to Governor as they're trying to work out how to get people back

Return to Bay Islands:
* Still working out how to get people back.
* From what's known, just 36 people are tryin to get back to the Bay Islands.
  Have to weight the good of 36 vs 100,000.
* Please have a 30 day plan to deal with staying out of the Bay Islands until
  we can safely reopen the border.

To mainland:
* CM airlines are not operating to TGU
* Call them, can organise a charter
* Mainland has more people and much more infrastructure, so they can manage
  people arriving where the islands can not. A small wave of people would
  overwhelm the local infrastructure.
  * International aeorplane has 200 seats, no place to put them given we only
    have 99 quaratine beds available.
  * Can't quarantine at home as people will contaminate the other people at
    home and, as we saw with the first case, people also go out (such as going
    to church)

Getting to Roatan:
* Charter flights on the same day as the flight out.

Shut down airport:
* Aim is to close down completely, both in and out, after the 31st

Airport decontamination:
* No arrives, so use that area. Using doctors who know about COVID-19 to
  contain people. Passport and any payments are decontaminated, taken to
  immigration and then returned with their boarding pass. Board directly from
  arrivals.
* We are not receiving anyone. Only people who are in transit to an
  international flight.

Getting to the airport:
* Get there 09:30-10:00

General
-------

Transmission
* Collaboration between all government authorities, local, state and federal

Curfew end on Monday?
* No idea. Discussion amongst local and state level authorities

Working
* Send governor an email if you would like people to try and work
* Need a special form to have people work

Partying:
* Will look into it.

Dive gear as repirator:
* Can use dive gear as a [protective
  mask](https://www.scubadivermag.com/ocean-reef-launches-adaptor-to-change-full-face-snorkel-mask-into-covid-19-protective-mask)

Cable and Internet:
* This is not a necessity, you still need to pay
* They're only looking for payment for February, not March

Grocery pickup:
* Please stay inside your car when picking up from a grocery store on Roatan

Fishing:
* No idea when we open that up again.

Semana Santa:
* This is not happening at this time

Getting masks and gloves:
* Pharmacies and cleaning companies
