---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-03-21"
date: 2020-03-21T16:45:15-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-03-21 16:45"
tags: [
  "absolute-curfew",
  "airlines",
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "curfew",
  "facebook-live",
  "food",
  "martial-law",
  "testing",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-03-21
16:45](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/2652391104980481/).
Skip to 4:50 for English.

Note that it's been re-ordered and some repetition collapsed.

COVID-19
--------

* Pending results are all negative of the 11 tests run across the Bay Islands
* 2 cases to be tested, one from Roatan and one from Utila. Picked up by
  airforce last night.
* Planning to send further samples on Monday
  * If you have symptoms, please call emergency numbers to get tested
  * There will be a questionnaire to work out who will be tested as kits are
    limited.

Airlines
--------

* No announcement from:
  * American
  * Delta
  * Spirit
* Avianca suspended all operations until May
* American:
  * Last we heard from them we were waiting for them to confirm type of plane
    and that they wouldn't be bringing anyone in with them.
  * Note from Paul: American suspended all operations until May
* United:
  * Flights from Mon-Sun (March 23-29) Roatan to Houston
  * Waiting on some last minute confirmations, but highly likely to go ahead
  * There will be day specific WhatsApp chat groups
  * Limit comments to:
    * Confirmation code
    * Current location
  * No nationality restrictions. Currently if you have a confirmation you will
    be able to travel.
  * Completely booked, United has been overselling them
  * No dates on San Pedro Sula (SAP)
* US citizens are stuck all over the world, not just Honduras. e.g. 1,000 in
  Morocco
* If you don't have a confirmation code for a flight next week and want to get
  to the USA, please call United and ensure you get one. Again, only flight
  available is RTB to IAH.
* Go to the airport as early as possible
* If stopped by police, show:
  * Passport
  * Ticket or confirmation
* Westjet: Please be as early as possible
  * Have a list of people in dire emergency as priority passengers for spare
    seats.
* Overstay fine can be paid at airport immigration office
* SINGER only required for charter flights under 15
* Charters:
  * Under 15 are easy
  * Over 100 is difficult as there are lots of criteria to be passed
* Europe: No flights at this time
  * Czechoslovakia: There may be a flight specificly to pickup Czechoslovakian
    citizens. Are working with the Czechoslovakian government on this.
* Utila: Talk to Steve about transit to Roatan
* Do **not** go to the airport to try and get on the standby list. If you're on
  the standby list (provided by the embassy for those in dire need) you'll be
  contacted
* Visa fines waived if expire during emergency
* General travel ban extended to March 29

Curfew/State of Emergency/Martial Law
-------------------------------------

* Not in martial law, in a state of emergency
* 3 levels:
  1. Curfew
  2. State of Emergency
  3. Martial Law
* Please stay home unless you are having a medical emergency or catching a
  flight.
  * Groceries can be delivered
  * Supermarkets and pulperias are both open if necessary. Prefer delivery.
* Martial law is when the military takes over. The government is still in
  control, not the military

Supplies
--------

* Prefer delivery. Please check websites and Facebook pages of companies
* Supermarkets and groceries are open
* Gas is available, working on getting fuel
* Working on fixing issues with closed grocery stores
* Will look at opening Petrosun cash machine
* ATMs should be working and you can leave to go to them

General
-------

* Household staff such as cleaning and guards?
  * Must have them in uniform
  * If in uniform, the yes they can come
* Private message to governor:
  * His phone number if you have it
  * [Governors Facebook page](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas)
* Donating to Recovery/Go Fund Me: Will setup later
* Ferry: Don't have dates for them yet
* Spraying for mosquitos will be looked into
* Using private beaches:
  * We are in a state of emergency
  * Any activity which looks like it might promote being in a group will be
    disbanded by the police

Team
----

* This is a team, not just the governor
* Mayors
  * Jerry Heinz in Roatan
  * Troy Bodden in Utila
  * Spurgeon Miller in Guanaja
  * Carson Dilbert in Santos Guardiola 
* Congressman Rob McNab
* Teams behind each of these leaders
* Have broken tasks down, the governors role is primarily getting people off
  the islands
* Chambers
  * Synthia Solomon: Chamber of Tourism, looking into economic damage
  * Ricardo Merren: Chamber of Commerce
* Doctors Colman and others in the hospital
* Will put up pictures for every authority so you can see who's working

