---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-12-07"
date: 2020-12-07T07:30:02-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-12-07 07:30"
tags: [
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "clinic",
  "covid-19",
  "facebook-live",
  "medical-brigades",
  "testing",
  "travel",
  "triage-center",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-12-07
07:30](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/427527995081110/)

Starts at 01:30

The Spanish transmission can be found
[here](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/841217360013542/)

Updates will be done as needed, no fixed dates. The governor aims to post on
Facebook the day before for future messages.

COVID-19 Testing and Treatment
------------------------------

Cases:
* Numbers from health department bulletin 11, published 2020-11-26
* PCR tests:
  * 3,506 total tests
  * 2,176 positive
  * 378 recuperated (those who have received a post-infection negative test)
    * Due to the limited availability of PCR test kits, recuperation tests are
      no longer being done
  * 38 deaths
  * 1,760 active cases

Hospitalisation:
* Total of 8 hospitalised patients in Roatan (as of Thursday)
  * 4 in the hospital
  * 4 in the COVID center
* No official information for Guanaja or Utila
* Does not include private hospital numbers as these have not been supplied to
  the governor

Please ensure you always have a mask on outside. It's critical to keeping
everyone safe.

French Harbour COVID center:
* Little Friends Foundation received a grant from the inter development bank of
  HNL 15M to operate the center.
* The center will be temporarily closed to save money now that infection rates
  are down
* All the equipment will stay in the center in case there's another wave
* Medical personnel will shift to doing house to house brigades
* Roatan public hospital will remain as the primary center for managing COVID
  infections.
  * It has been updated and can now take up to 20 patients
  * If there are more than 15 cases, the health authorities may re-open the
    French Harbour center

Triage centers:
* Existing triage centers in Coxen Hole and at the Institute of Santos Guardiola
* A new center will be setup in La Fuertes

Utila COVID cases:
* No updates for a while, will follow up.
* There was some mention of COVID over the weekend
  * **Note:** There have been updates on the [Utila Municipality Facebook
    page](https://www.facebook.com/Municipalidad-de-Utila-328195770717532)

PCR test processing:
* Tests are sent to the mainland
* The Roatan machine ran out of reagents
* The Health Department may be able to help with getting a machine for Utila

Travel
------

San Pedro Sula Airport:
* Target is mid December, expect the beginning of January 2021
* La Ceiba (LCE) and Roatan (RTB) are being used as alternate destinations
  while SAP is unavailable.

Pre-arrival testing:
* Have been working to potentially extend it beyond 72 hours but no update yet

Yachts:
* Marine borders are not open, only land and air
* Aiming to try and solve this early this week

General
-------

Donations:
* Both money and supplies work, depending on what's easiest for the donor.
* If you need help organising donations, please contact the governor via
  private message.

Curfew:
* Curfew starts at 22:00
