---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-06-23"
date: 2020-06-23T08:30:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-06-23 08:30"
tags: [
  "airlines",
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "biosecurity",
  "covid-19",
  "doctors",
  "facebook-live",
  "quarantine",
  "returning-islanders",
  "travel",
  "treatment",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-06-23
08:30](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/278291270192448)

Starts at 02:30

The Spanish transmission can be found [here](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/194810691853351/)

COVID-19 Testing and Treatment
------------------------------

Cases:
* 71 cases in Roatan and Santos Guardiola
  * We are testing at a much higher rate than we were
  * Only 1 has been hospitalised, others are low symptoms or asymptomatic
* Utila and Guanaja are still officially COVID free
* There are some rapid tests that came back positive for Guanaja, but until the
  PCR tests are done we won't know for sure and official numbers won't be
  updated.

Weekend testing:
* 300 PCR test swabs collected Thu-Sun last week.
  * Test kits flown to the mainland on Sunday
* 278 tests still waiting results

Limiting transmission:
* Increased testing is being done
* Biosecurity measures (such as masks) are still the most effective approach
* If we are not careful it will continue to spread, which will impact our
  ability to open the islands
  * Need to wear masks when away from home, such as shopping or at parties
  * Shaming people who do not wear masks can help
* If you think you have symptoms stay at home and call authorities as quickly
  as possible.
  * Wear a mask if you absolutely have to leave, do not shake hands or come
    into contact with others

Rapid test kits
* Released late on Monday
* Working on getting them to Roatan as quickly as possible
* More test kits will be ordered

Treatment centers:
* The hospital and COVID-19 treatment center are both open
* If you have symptoms of COVID-19, please go to the treatment center
  * They will do rapid tests as well as other diagnostics and treatment
  * Those who can not afford treatment will get it provided for them
* The treatment center is in front of Banco Lafise
* Look at Tegucigalpa, there are no beds available at their hospitals at all
  * COVID-19 quickly goes from being a small wave to a tsunami

Quarantine:
* People who came on the last ferry and are supposed to be quarantining at home
  have been seen at parties without masks.
  * This is a huge problem and why the governor believes further lockdown won't
    work
* There is not space to quarantine those without symptoms as there are only 30
  beds.

PCR Testers:
* All the ones found so far are too complicated to use here, looking for
  something mid-tier

Doctors:
* Still seeking those who wish to help

Infected hospital staff:
* Hospital workers have been out in the community without masks and it's
  currently believed that this is how they got it

MAIZ:
* If you can afford it, get it and keep it at home
* Should be used by those symptoms, not as a prophylactic

Low rates of recovered people:
* Need to do a second test to confirm they're well
* Tests are being focussed on those who need to verify rapid tests

Travel and Immigration
----------------------

Flights:
* No opening date for international travel
* There are flights to TGU and SAP. You can arrange with the island
  municipalities to be repatriated if you take one of these flights.
  * Honduran residents and citizens can return without extra documentation
  * Non-residents are only being accepted in extreme emergency situations

Visa office:
* Still closed

General
-------

Lockdown:
* This has **not** been approved, it's still being looked into.
  * Already a lot of cases, so not likely to be affective.
  * Until you see an official document, it's not going to happen
* There will be time to get ready if it is approved.
* Governor believes that lockdown is hurting more than helping at this time

Crime:
* It is going up
* Special quarantine for the police that were brought over.
* Faced with a choice of either bringing them over and quarantining them for 14
  days or not having any more police.
* Normally have over 200 police, started the crisis with 115
* New police are disciplined and following quarantine

Paying taxes:
* Call or WhatsApp to +504-8902-4402

