---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-06-26"
date: 2020-06-26T08:30:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-06-26 08:30"
tags: [
  "airlines",
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "biosecurity",
  "covid-19",
  "facebook-live",
  "quarantine",
  "returning-islanders",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-06-26
08:30](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/3187482834673526)

Starts at 01:45

The Spanish transmission can be found [here](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/267732207999697/)

COVID-19 Testing and Treatment
------------------------------

Test results:
* 99 confirmed cases via PCR
* 110 pending
* Utila is still negative
* Guanaja has 19 rapid tests positive, which they are treating while they get
  PCR tests to confirm

Rapid tests:
* 4,000 rapid tests have arrived and have been given to the hospital as of
  10:00 on Friday.
  * 95.6% specificity (i.e. provides accurate negative results)
* Working on getting another batch
* Also working on making a PCR testing lab out of shipping containers

Report breaking down cases by location on the islands:
* Was provided by someone as a comment
* Governor is working with the director of the health department to regularly
  create this report

Rumor of COVID-19 death:
* False.
* Death recently was due to high blood sugar
* A person has been hospitalised for a chronic disease. They are doing well.

Travel and Immigration
----------------------

Returning Islanders
* All were tested when they arrived
* Mayors on Roatan and the governor had a press meeting because there have been
  issues with breaking quarantine.
* People fought to get their family members back and signed documents saying
  they would be legally responsible for ensuring the family members stayed at
  home for the quarantine period.
  * There are many reports of those who should be in quarantine being outside.
  * The people who signed for those in quarantine are frequently saying that
    they can't control the people they've vouched for. This is unacceptable.
  * Even though these people know there will be legal issues, they don't seem
    to care, which is disturbing.
* In Canada, if you break quarantine it is a CAD 1,000,000 fine and 60 days of
  jail time. We need to be taking it as seriously.
* Enforcing quarantine is one of the ways in which we stop the virus spreading.

RTB Airport International Flights:
* No dates for reopening yet
* Also don't know when we will know

National flights:
* After 2020-07-15

Close down:
* Guanaja is doing a 14 day shutdown
* The rest of the Bay Islands are not

Belize Approach:
* This is very cool, something similar is being worked on for the Bay Islands

Ferries:
* Not sure of the dates on these yet

General
-------

Police Bribery:
* This is being investigated
* Remember that if you need to report a police issue, get their name and the
  location

President:
* Stable and recovering from COVID-19

Busses:
* Reports of overcrowding
* Will be looked in to

Biohazard waste:
* Using an incinerator in the Roatan airport

Hospital admissions:
* These have gone down since the start of the crisis

RECO:
* Press release by RECO yesterday. The governor will share this.
  * Clarity provided by RECO

Hotel requirements when the country reopens:
* Requirements are being worked on by the health minister, should be released
  shortly.

Residency expiry:
* Not sure if the fines will be waived for residency, the governor will look
  into it.

Oversight committee:
* Working on a report regarding the projects that were done by the oversight
  committee.
* The funds are almost completely spent
