---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-07-13"
date: 2020-07-13T09:00:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-07-13 09:00"
tags: [
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "facebook-live",
  "quarantine",
  "reopening",
  "transport",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-07-13
09:00](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/652761692253951)

Starts at 02:00

The Spanish transmission can be found
[here](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/635378600406333/)

COVID-19 Testing and Treatment
------------------------------

Cases:
* There was an "extra" case counted last time. This was a control case, they
  were tested to see if they had recovered.
* 132 PCR confirmed cases on the Bay Islands
* Not sure how many tests are pending, have asked for this information but it
  has not been provided.
* Generally been a good week, not a lot of positives in the last week
* No additional deaths that are COVID-19 related.
  * Still have one test result pending
* Hospital is treating 4 people
* COVID-19 treatment center isn't currently treating anyone, it's just being
  used as a triage area
* Without broad testing (limited by the fact that there are only 4,000
  test kits in the Bay Islands), there's no way of telling how widespread the
  virus is in the community.

PCR test results:
* Takes time to get results, which is frustrating to everyone
* Only two working testing locations for Honduras
  * Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula
* Oversight committee is looking for a PCR machine for the Bay Islands
  * Some promising leads, will let us know when they are able to buy one
  * Abbott machines are not currently available outside the USA

Community testing:
* There is a community testing program in place

Contact tracing:
* Officials are doing contact tracing when new cases are found

Treatment options:
* If you have private insurance, you can choose to be treated at a private
  hospital

Travel and Immigration
----------------------

Overstay Fines:
* If your visa expired before 2020-03-16 and you leave or renew your visa
  before 2020-08-04 there will be no fees
* You pay fines when you leave
* Anyone who wants to stay can do so (implied: extend your visa)
* The governor thinks that overstay fines will start from August (rather than
  March) for those who do not renew their visa, but will double check and get
  back to us.
* This site has a page dedicated to visa and fine information [here](/visa)

Repatriation flights:
* There will probably continue to be repatriation flights from Honduras for the
  rest of the year. The governor doesn't see them stopping any time soon.

General
-------

Circulation restrictions:
* Extended 1 more week, ending on 2020-07-19
* Today is those whose ID ends in 1, Friday is 5
* Official curfew open hours are 07:00 - 17:00
* Bay Islands allows all businesses to be open (some municipalities have
  tighter restrictions).
* Biosecurity measures are critical. Please wear a mask when you are not at
  home.

Community Outreach Program:
* Starting with Utila and Guanaja, via Zoom.
* Will be recorded.
* Answer questions about COVID-19, what symptoms to watch out for, who to
  contact and when.
* Working with community boards (Patronatos)
* If your community wishes to have a session, contact the governor to have one
  scheduled.

Donation of PPE:
* Officially given to doctors by Rotary tomorrow
* Rotary has been a great partner throughout the pandemic

Donations of Curtains:
* Please donate curtains for the COVID-19 treatment center
* Using curtains to separate patients
* Can reach out or just come by the treatment center to drop off

Prospera Project by Crawfish Rock:
* This has been approved by the central government
* They have a
  [website](https://www.roatanlandandhomes.com/community/crawfish-rock/) you
  can look up more information on
