---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-06-17"
date: 2020-06-17T08:30:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-06-17 08:30"
tags: [
  "airlines",
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "biosecurity",
  "covid-19",
  "doctors",
  "facebook-live",
  "medication",
  "medication",
  "quarantine",
  "reopening",
  "returning-islanders",
  "travel",
  "treatment",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-06-17
08:30](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/656334405097525)

Starts at 02:30

The Spanish transmission can be found [here](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/946388922473321/)

COVID-19 Testing and Treatment
------------------------------

Confirmed cases:
* 50 confirmed cases
  * Utila and Guanaja are still COVID-19 free
  * 32 new ones reported on Tuesday
* 41 tests pending from the 200 people who came in yesterday

Masks
* People are taking masks off (putting them around the neck, on the head or
  just pulling them under their noses), particularly in supermarkets etc. This
  defeats the purpose of having a mask.
* There's only so much the government and police can do to encourage people to
  put masks on.
  * Governor recommends shaming people (take a picture and post it online) if
    they do not put on masks when requested to.
  * Governor believes that shaming is more effective than fines, this is how we
    move forward with plastic.
* Masks are the best protection we have, wearing them is very important.

Symptoms:
* Please report yourself or others who have symptoms
* It's very important to get people treated as early as possible

Doctors:
* Not a lot of community doctors available as they are either in the hospital
  or the COVID-19 treatment center.
* Need volunteers with medical experience to help out.
  * Contact the governor if you'd like to volunteer
* Infectologist has been working as a volunteer since day zero.

COVID-19 case level:
* Request to add status of COVID-19 cases (asymptomatic, mild, hospitalised etc)
  to the updates on cases.
  * Governor thinks this is a great idea and will follow up.

Ventilators:
* Public sector: 0, 2 on the mainland which are tagged for the Bay Islands
* Private sector: 20 VPAP machines which can be converted to ventilators as
  necessary

Self isolation:
* If people move in self isolation, the lists will be updated with their new
  location.
* If people live alone they will be able to self isolate, otherwise they will
  need to go to the treatment center.

Rapid tests:
* The 4,000 tests are still in customs
  * These will be used to do random tests throughout the population
* There was a donation of 250 tests which covered those who came recently

Plans for the next wave:
* Still working on getting through this wave, haven't yet planned for the next.

Biosecurity auditing:
* There are 40 auditors on Roatan who are responsible for ensuring businesses
  are following biosecurity measures.

Intubation and other invasive treatment:
* Anything complex or invasive will be treated at the hospital

Plan for Utila and Guanaja:
* Anyone with medium to severe symptoms will be transported to the treatment
  center in Roatan.
* It's up to the municipalities how they want to manage people coming in while
  the municipality is COVID-19 free. If the municipality wants it, they can
  continue to quarantine people.

Spread of COVID-19:
* We have tested less than 1% of the population so we really don't know how far
  it's spread.
  * Difficult to make good decisions without good information

Travel and Immigration
----------------------

Immigration:
* There is some talk that immigration are only allowing 60 days without fining
  people.
  * This has not been confirmed and is different from what the governor was
    originally told, which is that anyone who overstayed their visa after the
    lockdown started would not be fined.
* Immigration office is not yet open, online works for some but not for others

Flights with layovers:
* If you can coordinate a same day flight you will not need to do quarantine

Travel to the airport:
* As long as you have a ticket you don't need to be traveling on your day

Returning islanders:
* Will all be tested

International flights/cruise ships in:
* No update yet on these

General
-------

People identifying COVID-19 patients:
* Please keep the identity of those with COVID-19 private to avoid
  discrimination
* Please send a screen shot to the governor if you see others posting
  identifying information
* Some of the people with COVID-19 are our doctors, who have been working
  diligently to keep us safe.

President:
* Yes, the president and first lady both have COVID-19
* The virus does not discriminate or favor the rich, anyone can get it.

Petition for total lockdown:
* This petition is being organised by the health department.
* They are asking the authorities, both local and central, for a complete
  shutdown among other things.
* Governors personal opinion: Governor recommended on Monday that we do not
  have a complete lockdown as the information he has is that he has not seen a
  place where a complete lockdown works.
  * His recommendation is that anyone who is not at risk and can work should be
    able to.
  * Anyone who has chronic diseases or is elderly should stay home.
  * Important that we all follow biosecurity measure
  * Also recognises that the local populace is very averse to following orders.
    Lots of protests, people smuggling and ignoring biosecurity measures while
    we were locked down.
  * There's also a concern that another complete lockdown would encourage more
    crime, which is already a problem.
  * Governor recommends focusing on treating those who get infected.
* Further meetings today, the petition has not been authorised yet.
* Compare Jamaica and other Caribbean islands. Jamaica opened on Monday.
* Doctors are concerned that the healthcare system will collapse under the load.
* If the lockdown is approved, we will have time before it starts to get
  supplies for the duration

Effectiveness of first lockdown:
* This brought us time
* When things started we had no treatment options and very little knowledge.
  Now we can move forward by identifying those with symptoms or at risk

Crime:
* Crime has been growing
* Concern that another strict lockdown would cause it to skyrocket
* Half the police for the islands is on the mainland and they have not been
  able to return them due to the lockdown.
* Working on returning police from the mainland now that the islands are
  opening up.

The More You Know:
* Volunteer backed series to share information
* Being printed and shared to get to as many people as possible

Utila projects:
* There are 3 projects being considered by the committee
* Governor will let us know when a project gets approved.

Utila communication:
* Governor has contact with them, but will reach out again to get more
  information.

Education for people to feed themselves:
* Not planned at this time.
