---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-05-08"
date: 2020-05-08T09:30:00-08:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-05-08 09:30"
tags: [
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "facebook-live",
  "local-business",
  "quarantine-breech",
  "reopening",
  "returning-islanders",
  "testing",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-05-08
09:30](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/3062391603781765)
(starts at 04:40).

This is a transcript of the English transmission. There is also a [Spanish
transmission](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/2358275711131899)
which I do not translate.

COVID-19
--------

Testing:
* 33 negative tests, 2 pending
* 2 people who left for the mainland and snuck back have been arrested and are
  being tested 

Medical equipment:
* No word yet on when it'll get to the islands

Testing for those who think they may have had COVID-19 in December:
* Being organised, requires a blood test
* You can sign up for the tests [via this
  form](https://forms.gle/sA4dkBVM8uvXvHsQ6)

Travel
------

Returning Bay Islanders:
* Commission has been setup to organise bringing people back
* Currently one in Roatan and one in Santos Guardiola, should have others
  * Made up of community leaders who have been active in trying to get people
    back
* Government will play supporting role
* For anyone whose primary residence is the Bay Islands

US travel chat for May:
* https://chat.whatsapp.com/GZYwGx9D7SRAoTfyZSEtRG

Travel from Utila to Roatan:
* This plane was not authorised to travel

Police and identification:
* "No soy residente" if you aren't a resident and show passport

Document priority for establishing day to go out:
* Citizen card
* Residency card
* Passport

General
-------

Including other islands in update:
* Governor will reach out to each islands mayors and get updates to include
* Had become focussed on Roatan as those mayors have been keeping him updated

Reopening island:
* Still waiting on confirmation, expecting it soon and will do a special update
* Has already been done in some places for restaurants

Media people creating rumors:
* There are media reports of people with COVID-19 on the islands, but these are
  false.
* Governor asks that media use evidence when making claims rather than
  repeating hearsay.

Criminals:
* 15 convicted criminals have been moved off Roatan
* 20 more are being prepared, so there will be more space in the jailhouse
* Car involved in robberies around Sandy Bay was found
* These people are going to jail, no way to stop them coming back to the Bay
  Islands as they have constitutional rights.

Getting info to people without internet:
* Alliance with patronatos and other community leaders to get information out

Charging for services provided in emergency:
* Even though not officially open, companies can still charge for repairs and
  other services rendered.

Police:
* Reports of police misconduct. Need to have their names, the time and
  checkpoint location to be able to follow up effectively.
* Police have the authority to search vehicles

Alcohol:
* Alcohol ban is at the mayors office level
* Nothing in place right now banning the sales of alcohol
* Police can only confiscate alcohol if you're drinking it in public

Businesses permitted to be open:
* This hasn't changed recently
* Hardware stores, banks, petrol stations, supermarkets, pharmacies.
* Food only to go.
