---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-03-28"
date: 2020-03-28T15:15:15-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-03-28 15:15"
tags: [
  "airlines",
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "curfew",
  "donations",
  "facebook-live",
  "local-business",
  "returning-islanders",
  "testing",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-03-28
15:15](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/280992849581495)

Skip to 31 minutes to get to mostly English (there's some English spread
throughout the Spanish part too).

Note that it's been re-ordered and some repetition collapsed.

Curfew
------

Timing:
* Supposed to expire Sunday, guarantee it will be extended both at the federal
  and local levels.
* Working with mayors to work out exactly what will be done
* Share decision on the Sunday transmission

Local businesses:
* Will create exceptions for local business to open as long as we have zero
  COVID-19 cases.
* Things will change very rapidly if there's any positive case

Can only be out for:
* Food
* Medicine
* Catching a flight

COVID-19
-------

Avoiding contamination:
* Supermarkets are in charge of decontaminating
* People are also decontaminating their own groceries

Quarantine Centres and Transfer to Islands:
* Setup in San Pedro Sula and Tegucigalpa
* Sunday is first flights in to test this concept
* There was a tent destined to Roatan, given logistics it was deployed in
  San Pedro Sula, but will include the islanders. After a 14 day quarantine
  they will be able to be reintroduced to the population.

Worldwide:
* Incredibly bad day worldwide, 12,000 new cases confirmed in the USA alone
* Over 100 cases in Honduras, 3 dead can read more on http://covid19honduras.org
* Bay Island still has zero cases. 16 tests done, 6 pending

Test results:
* Will be posted on the [governors Facebook
  page](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas) as soon as available, so you
  don't have to wait for the daily update.
* Corte, Colon and Tegucigalpa numbers are all going up rapidly
* Typically takes 24 hours to turn around tests

Cuban Help:
* Will look into medication, hadn't heard of it before
* About 100 physicians coming to Honduras from Cuba, we won't get any of them
  into the bay islands as long as we don't have COVID-19.

Rapid Testing:
* Attempting to purchase rapid tests
* For latest ones, we're waiting on them getting to market

Flights and Travel
------------------

Air Transat (Canada):
* Scheduled for Monday
* Canadian citizens only
* Message the governors team for more information
* TO get on the flight, need to register with a Canadian service

United (USA and world wide connections):
* Two flights today, 12:40 and 14:40
  * 50 from Utila!
  * Steve, the Canadian warden, has done a fantastic job assisting people out
* Last flight scheduled for Tuesday
* There have been empty seats for the last couple of days, feel free to come by
  and get on standby

Islanders Returning:
* Still not permitted, know it's tough, trying as hard as possible to get
  people home soon but we can't risk the islands getting infected.
* Know how many people need assistance now, at the planning stage.
* If you need assistance, please fill in [this form](
  https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfjLsFHZVgzird6TloXlZatclzIjJYsadRvXieX5NzOjaRk_A/viewform)

Utila to San Pedro Sula for flight to Europe:
* Go to the mayors office to get the authorisation to fly
* Reach out to German consulate, who can help you as well

Cruise Ships:
* Royal Caribbean is suspending for at least another 30 days, so earliest
  would be May.

Staying
* Ensure you have:
  * Food
  * Cash
  * Place to live for at least 30 days
* If you have all of this, welcome to stay. Otherwise they recommend you leave.

Boats:
* Only planes, no boats.

General
-------

Donations
* Going to need a lot of help
* Considered alternatives but came to the conclusion that cash donations were
  the best.
* [Make It Count Foundation](https://themakeitcountfoundation.org/) is the
  backing 501(c)(3)
  * Means that for US tax filing, it's tax deductible
* Use the funds to buy food, medical equipment, etc
* Expect it to cover the islands for at least 30-60 days, maybe longer,
  depending on how long it takes to get airlines and cruise ships returning to
  the islands.
* Will share details of how the money is spent on the [COVID-19
  page](http://covid19roatan.com/donations/)
* Will have a commission to control the spending of funds.
* Everything will be shared amongst all the islands
* Will honour requests to donate to a specific place (e.g. specific islands)
* Will need local funds to be able to make decisions, it's going to get tough
  financially as Honduras has been hit hard.
* Looked at Go Fund Me, but they take a cut and are difficult to work with

Stay home:
* Still seeing people going to the beach, please protect yourself and your
  neighbours by staying home
* People who we're trying to protect are those with compromised immune systems
  and the elderly.

Protecting Island Borders:
* Mayor Jerry Hynds is offering a HNL 10,000 reward to anyone who provides
  verifiable information of any vessel attempting to approach our shores
  without authorisation.
* If find canoes with illegal people (usually from Colon), will sink it to
  protect the islands
* Report suspect boats to:
  * Marina Mercante +504-9970-5310
  * Police Chief: +504-9440-0320
  * Navy: +504-3249-8446

Biographies:
* Starting tomorrow on the [Governors Facebook
  Page](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas), there will be a series
  going through the team members helping out

Church:
* They should be shut down for now. Lots of people in a small place so very
  dangerous.

Tropic Consolidators and Fedex:
* Governor Dino will follow up on shipments

Utila Aid:
* Part of the islands, will be part of the federal aid package

Mosquito Spraying:
* This is ongoing, has not stopped. Will follow up with specific complaint.

Eldon's and other Supermarkets:
* Order ahead of time
* One person in the car
* Don't leave the vehicle, groceries will be handed to you

Garifuna Settlement Day Festival
* Postponed until islands not at risk
* Tentative date is last week of July

Being Stopped Unnecessarily
* If you believe it's unnecessary, please report the name of the police officer
* Talk to local authorities about local police.

Payroll Tax:
* Please contact Mayors office
