---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-03-22"
date: 2020-03-22T16:45:15-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-03-22 16:45"
tags: [
  "absolute-curfew",
  "airlines",
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "curfew",
  "facebook-live",
  "food",
  "martial-law",
  "testing",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-03-21
16:45](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/2652391104980481/).
Skip to 4:50 for English.

Note that it's been re-ordered and some repetition collapsed.

Curfew
------

Curfew rules?
* We started with 08:00-18:00 
* We changed to state of emergency (not martial law), which is a permanent
  curfew
  * Can only leave for:
    * Medical emergency
    * Food
    * Travel out of the country
  * There is no time when we're allowed to go out for anything not on that list
* Please stay at home as much as possible, the governor is working from home
  and encourages everyone else too as well.

Curfew on Utila?
* Everything should be shutdown now, just like Roatan

Borders closed
* Extended until 2020-03-29

COVID-19
-------

* 11 tested, 0 positive
* 2 pending (Lab is overloaded)
* 3 sent today
* Looking at local way to test it, without having to send. Some news of 4 hour
  test kits

Breakdown of most effected cities?
* Yes, Tegucigalpa (the capital and most populous city) is the most affected

Testing:
* Only as good as collection
* We are not expecting to have no COVID-19, but to limit the exposure
* 14 days is what we know about length of contagion
* We don't have many kits 
* Arrivals:
  * Not accepting anyone
  * Not a lot of kits so using them cautiously
  * Using a questionnaire to work out who needs testing

Dealing with long term:
* Have looked at buying breathing machines locally
* Looking into how to do testing locally
* Some supplies arrived today from the donation

Groceries etc
---------------

No water and food in Coxen Hole?
* Will look into it

Banks?
* The banks that are closed are unlikely to be open tomorrow
* Some are open, some not. Governor is unable to keep track of individual banks.
* Similarly with pharmacies, some are open some are not

Food bank donations?
* Miss Nidia (sp?), councilwoman in Roatan is doing one

Food delivery
* Permitted

Gasoline?
* Not sure when closed gas stations will reopen
* OK to pick up where available
* Great job doing delivery
* Looking to make an exception to be open more
* Please keep an eye on social media for gasoline companies so can see
  announcements

Medication?
* Travel for medication is permitted
* Get delivered if you can
* Let us know what you need and how we can help you

Flights
-------

Flights that left today:
* WestJet to Canada
  * Brought in 4 Hondurans which the Bay Islands were not notified about
  * Olympic level athletes who had been training in Canada
  * 3 went to La Ceiba 
  * 1 from Roatan, who is staying here
    * Under 14 day quarantine
    * Leave anything for this person at the clinic at French Harbour, however
      pleaese keep this to a minimum to avoid contamination
* Global Guardians Charter to USA

News item about 300 people coming to Roatan:
* These people are not coming to Roatan, they're crossing by land

Belize:
* Tropic Air
  * Not currently resuming service
  * Contact the governor and his team can get in contact with Tropic about more
    flights

Connections:
* Getting to RTB:
  * There's a WhatsApp group for each United flight, please join the appropriate
    one and drop a message there.
  * Best way to get to RTB is a charter flight
    * This provides the most control to prevent COVID-19 spreading to Roatan
    * Troy Bodden did 4-5 flights from UII to RTB today
* Boats for connection?
  * Utila dream could run if there are at least 50 people on a flight

Canadian Flights:
* Air Transat:
  * Should be two flights, don't have confirmation yet
  * Will put confirmation on chat when we know
* Further flights:
  * More flights after tomorrow, still waiting on confirmations

Europeans flights:
* No particular news
* Czech Republic is the furthest ahead, they've sent forms. Working with Jerry
  Cherney (sp?) the honorary consul to get everyone home as soon as possible.
* Been talking to:
  * Australia
  * Danish
  * Germany
  * Italy
  * Spain
  * UK
* Honduras Europe website:
  * No idea if it's trustworthy, not in contact with them
* UK and Europe with connecting flights:
  * Airlines are cancelling individuals if they can't guarantee the outbound
    flight to Europe.
  * Europeans generally have it the roughest due to connections

USA Flights:
* American Airlines
  * Have a deal with United, may be able to rebook you onto a United flight
* Delta
  * No word
* United still coming?
  * Yes
  * Tomorrow will be first flight, we are hoping they're going to make it.
  * All flights are fully booked

Hondurans trying to return from Mexico:
* Lots of people are trying to get back to Roatan. If just one is sick the
  island can't handle it.
* We are keeping strict rules to avoid the islands getting sick.

Others:
* Once USA and Canada are done, will have more time to work on others. There's
  a lot of them and they're easy to deal with so being done first.

Traveling to the airport
* Need passport and ticket, police will let you through if they see them

Airport is open at 07:00
* Arrive as early as possible for flights or late fee visa processing

Visa:
* Overstay fees:
  * If your overstay happened because of the emergency (after March 14), then it
    will be taken care of and you will be able to leave.
  * If your overstay happend before March 14:
    * Try to get there as early as possible, even a day or two in advance. Can
      travel within a 5 day span of paying the overstay.
    * Please follow Honduran law in the future. Many places won't allow you to
      re-enter if you overstay visas, the governor has never overstayed a visa.
    * Pay with a [TGR1](https://tgr1.sefin.gob.hn/TGR1/), this is paid at the
      bank.
      * Immigration officers can't take money to avoid corruption
      * So it takes extra time which you need to allow for
      * Can fill out form online and take it to the bank
* Extensions
  * Can **not** be extended on Utila

Food at the airport?
* Welcome to bring your own, remember liquids rules

Hondurans looking to get to mainland?
* Yes, can look into getting the ferry to take them back

Protocol for people arriving
* Quarantine for 14 days

General
-------

Ferry between Utila and Roatan restart on the 29th?
* Not sure at this time

Working with US Embassy?
* Yes, closely
* US citizens should enroll in STEP

Traveling for medication
* This is always permitted

Anyone helping animal rescue?
* Not sure, good thought

Water in La Punta de Coxen Hole:
* Will talk to water department
