---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-04-15"
date: 2020-04-15T15:30:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-04-15 15:30"
tags: [
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "donations",
  "facebook-live",
  "quarantine-breech",
  "returning-islanders",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-04-15
15:30](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/1396234960578110)

Content starts at 3:15.

The is a transcript of the English transmission. There is also a [Spanish
transmission](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/242813453745997)
which I do not translate.

Note that it's been re-ordered and some repetition collapsed.

Donations
---------

Matching Donation:
* Reminder that anything donated to the foundation will be doubled as of
  Friday. Every donation is needed, no matter how small.

Fundraising:
* Current total (excluding the amount pledged for matching):
  USD 192,995; HNL 4,772,013
  * USD 40,445 USD still available as matching funds
* https://themakeitcountfoundation.org/
* Donate to the foundation you're most comfortable with, there are many (for
  example the Sol International).
* Lions club gave a donation to the hospital of face masks
* Challenge from Margo and Matt & Associates real estate company for all real
  estate companies across the islands to match their USD 1,000 donation

Utila fundraising:
* http://www.SupportUtila.org
* If you are on Utila in need of food, Tylenol or Aspirin, please send a
  message to @SupportUtila on Facebook

Food:
* Roatan Mayors office has given out 6,000 food bags
* Utila Search and Rescue has also given out hundreds of bags of food
* There's a lot of groups giving out food right now
* Some businesses are cutting salaries but giving out food

Donation oversight committee:
* Creating a technical health oversight committee.
* Working to invite people who 

HNL 50,000 relief by congress:
* Governor not sure, as he hasn't read the latest by the senator
* The Bay Islands are, to some extent, a victim of our own success. As there's
  no known COVID-19 here and there are large donations pouring in the
  government is reallocating funds to places which need them more.

COVID-19
--------

Testing:
* 27 samples taken and negative
* 4 pending (including the person who is in custody for entering the islands)
* One of the issues Honduras has is that there's not enough testing relative to
  the population. Successful countries are doing a lot more testing.
  * The central government is doing a huge push to try and increase testing.
  * Locally also trying to get more test kits too.
* Working with another country to get more kits locally.
* There's a push to setup 2 more test analysis sites (currently only
  Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula).

Honduras peak in June:
* Governor believes any such studies are premature as there hasn't been enough
  testing.

Reminder to keep hands clean and avoid touching your face, it's an important
factor in minimising exposure to COVID-19. For example, if you need to wipe
sweat off your face use a handkerchief or similar.

Rapid response kits:
* Many rich countries are hoarding until they know their citizens are taken
  care of
* Looking for contacts for getting rapid response kits please contact the
  governor

Travel
------

Expired visas when things open again:
* Will be looked into once the government starts to open up again as that'll
  happen before the full quarantine ends.

Mainlanders trying to get back to the mainland:
* People are free to go to the mainland
* If you can afford it, take a plane. There have been issues with boats.

Islanders trying to get back:
* No change

General
-------

Governor is having discussions with the Rotary club in the USA on collaboration.

Meeting today to work on opening up the islands. Should have more info tomorrow.

Police blocking parking:
* Order from on top to prevent people aggregating.

Pharmacies in French Harbour are now open.

Paying internet bills:
* Pay online or over the phone
* For example, to pay Claro: https://hn.mipagoclaro.com/

Children in school:
* Think of it as a pause. Similar to RECO and the banks, things will be added
  on to the end. Thinks the children will restart school at the end and
  continue from there to make up the lost time.
* There are video calls for school

Laid off without pay:
* If you have been paying local taxes, go to the mayors office and they can
  help you out.

Decision making:
* It's a team, central government supports the autonomy of the mayors
  * Governors office provides support and recommendations.
  * Mayors and central government make the decisions at the end of the day.
* Mayors in some places have been making decisions that are against the
  recommendations, but they know the local conditions and are free to do what's
  best for their people.

