---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-03-25"
date: 2020-03-25T15:45:15-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-03-25 15:45"
tags: [
  "airlines",
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "facebook-live",
  "food",
  "testing",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-03-25
15:45](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/516801595910917)

Note that it's been re-ordered and some repetition collapsed.

COVID-19
-------

Wide scale testing and long term strategy
* First case caused 8 more in Teulcialpa.
  * This is why the Bay Islands is being strict
* Bay Islands has 100 kits for samples, we've used 16.
  * It's not that we don't want to test, it's the limited number of kits
  * Using a questionnaire to work out where to use those kits
* 30 days depending on world numbers. If they continue to grow we'll continue
  to be shut down.

When opening up, will look at routes not people
* Please be careful to not focus on peoples nationality. If they haven't been
  to China, Spain or the USA in the last few weeks they've not been exposed,
  please don't assume that Asian or Spanish people have COVID-19

Groceries etc
---------------

ATMs on Roatan:
* Might have to go all the way to West End, not all of them are able to open
  right now.

Gas:
* Nautral gas is available in Roatan. Call and they'll deliver.
* For gasoline, check the governors page for hours
* Gasoline is available to everyone, it's not restricted to certain industries.
  * Please just keep the use of cars to necessities (medicine, good, water, etc)
* Gasonline available: Mon, Wed, Fri: 08:00 - 12:00

Restaurant Delivery:
* Restaurants which have delivery should be open

Malls:
* Closed as public area. Will look into limited opening.

Flights and Travel
------------------

Coming into the Bay Islands:
* Looking at 30 days with no one coming in
  * Been saying it for the last 6 days or so, but it's just an estimate.
* Come up with 30 day plans while you're abroad. If you need help reach out.
* The mainland is opening up some flights soon, consider going to the mainland
  if it's cheaper than where you are.

Canadians:
* RTN and SAP
  * Flights were last Monday
* Air Transat and Westjet were contemplating coming back, nothing confirmed yet
  though. Will let you know when we have more information.

USA:
* American Airlines
  * Two flights on Friday
* United
  * Another flight today, flight completely full
  * Flights every day until the 31st
  * May have two flights on Saturday. Not yet confirmed, but being organised

Overview of in and out:
* Lots of people saying they want to come back as soon as possible
* About 500 people left to leave

Travel to a flight:
* Police should not stop you if you have a ticket and passport

People from Spain and France
* Boat run by Honduran navy is picking up people from Roatan and Utila, then
  taking them to the mainland to get a flight out.
* No one is coming in on this boat

Expired visas:
* If expired during the COVID-19 crisis, no fees
* If expired before the crisis, go to the bank the day before at 08:00 and fix
  it.

General
-------

Internal Commerce:
* Looking into it, keeping the local economy going is important
* If things continue in a positive light, we'll have local commerce.
* Strong campaigns to encourage local business

Donations:
* Will have a website onine shortly
* Health and food are priorities
* Don't be ashamed to share if you're in need, people will reach out to help
* Will be a hard time after the crisis, we'll need all the help we can get

Bribes:
* Stopped for a bribe when trying to get to West End to get money from the bank.
* If you get approached for a bribe, please report the police officers name.

Rules for masks, gloves etc in Hotels:
* Should be no new checkins, just getting guests out
* If it's a complaint, please send it directly so we can follow up.

Health masks?
* Mask is for people who are sick or have immune system deficiency
* There's not enough masks for everyone, please don't wear one unless you need
  it. They're expensive and there are limited numbers.

VAT and business taxes:
* Have sent out a request to the president, waiting on feedback
* There will be a stimulus package, not sure what yet

Home owner looking for residency
* Won't be a problem, people will understand when it comes to filing for
  residency

Community watch of coast
* This is a great idea, we're going to see what we can do to get you to be able
  to help

Paying Reco bills without online account
* TIGO money is probably best
