---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-03-30"
date: 2020-03-30T15:15:15-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-03-30 15:15"
tags: [
  "airlines",
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "curfew",
  "donations",
  "facebook-live",
  "local-business",
  "segmented-circulation",
  "testing",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-03-30
15:15](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/788497041558770)

Skip to 45 minutes to get to mostly English (there's some English spread
throughout the Spanish part too).

Note that it's been re-ordered and some repetition collapsed.

Curfew
------

NB: There's a [curfew](https://hn.otoh.org/curfew/) page with a summary

Food:
* Deliveries still going on, even when people are not allowed to go to the
  supermarkets themselves (including Tue, Thu, Sat, Sun).

National ordinances:
* No local exception, so need to follow the national ones
* If need to go do bank, supermarket, petrol station or pharmacy can only go on
  Mon, Wed, Fri
* Delivery can operate on other days
* Pregnant, elderly, handicapped: 07:00-09:00 Mon, Wed, Fri and last digits of
  ID don't matter.
* If have mask and gloves to wear, please do
* If run a food business:
  * Need to follow curfew, only run 06:00 - 18:00.
  * Please let employees finish by 17:00 so they can get home before curfew.
  * Pupleria can also be open

Banking:
* Banpais made a mistake, they should be open 07:00 - 09:00 for seniors
* Bac say their ATM not open until Roatan borders open

Food banks:
* Humanitarian causes can run any time in the 06:00 - 18:00 time, not
  restricted by the latest ordinance

Opening up the islands:
* Not sure, working on it tomorrow.
* This is what the Mayors ordinance was hoping to solve

Leaving boats in the harbor to get deliveries from supermarkets?
* Yes, you can

People in vehicle:
* Max 2, 3 in a taxi
* Collectivo is forbidden

Visiting to secure a non-essential business?
* Yes, recommend you visit and take a look
* Socialising is not, but this is fine

Getting to/from work:
* As long as you are in uniform, can be transported by a driver
* Also as long as in the hours of 06:00 - 18:00
* No taxis Tue, Thu, Sat, Sun

COVID-19
-------

Giving people with good immune systems COVID-19?
* Not possible. Have heard it may be a thing in Germany but we don't have the
  ability to deal with that here.

Waiting on tests?
* 22 clear, 1 pending for Guanaja

Rapid response testing kits:
* Takes 10 days to produce
* Trying to get from Miami as fast as possible

Flights and Travel
------------------

International:
* Last flight to Canada today
  * Honourary counsel came to provide support at the airport
  * 70 people from across Honduras came to get on this flight
* Last international flight (United) is tomorrow.
* 12-13 flights to the USA, 15 to Canada
  * About 2,500 people
* Lots of people were involved in making the international flights run cleanly
* If need to leave in May, should leave tomorrow

Bonacca to Roatan?
* Not possible.

Immmigration:
* No immigration for handling visas in Utila, needs to be in Roatan

Utila Dream:
* This will run, working on getting it going

Islanders to Roatan:
* Still not permitted

General
-------

Donations:
* For those wanting to give a donation here: Rotary in Roatan and Chamber of
  Tourism. If you're oustide of the Bay Islands, please use
  https://themakeitcountfoundation.org/
  * If you have a favorite (e.g. BICA), all the charities need funds so please
    donate to your favorite.
* [Fundraiser for Utila](https://www.facebook.com/donate/551071658861260/)
* Make It Count foundation will give current totals every day, current total:
  USD 4,438.33, HNL 110,780.72
* No goal for money

Galaxy Ferry from Roatan to mainland:
* Will run on Tuesday
* No cost
* Only for people leaving to the mainland, no one can return to the Bay Islands
* If want to take this ferry, please send info to: +504-9680-8563
* If a person doesn't have the ability to send it (no internet), please help
  them out.

COVID-19 Response Team:
* Ron McNab is being covered today

Utila:
* Same rules as central government
