---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-04-29"
date: 2020-04-29T15:00:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-04-29 15:00"
tags: [
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "donations",
  "facebook-live",
  "reopening",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-04-29
15:00](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/225704475383991)
(starts at 01:30) and [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-04-29
09:00](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/278744956475915)
(starts at 02:15). The first one is the normal question/answer session and the
second is about donations and what's being done with the money.

The is a transcript of the English transmission. There is also a [Spanish
transmission](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/3133206690063013)
which I do not translate.

Note that it's been re-ordered and some repetition collapsed.

Plan is to do 15:00 for the foundation update on Monday and Friday. If there's
important updates, there may be an update on Wednesday as well.
Will move normal transmissions in the morning, probably 08:00 or 09:00

Donations
---------

Matching Donation:
* Reminder that anything donated to the foundation will be doubled as of
  Friday. Every donation is needed, no matter how small.

[Fundraising](https://themakeitcountfoundation.org/)
* Current total (excluding the amount pledged for matching):
  USD 208,649; HNL 5,172,888
  * USD 32,893 still available as matching funds
  * USD -15,000 for COVID-19 isolation centre in French Harbour

[Utila fundraising](http://www.SupportUtila.org):
* Over USD 12,500 raised
* If you are on Utila in need of food, Tylenol or Aspirin, please send a
  message to @SupportUtila on Facebook
* Businesses should join https://www.facebook.com/groups/SupportUtilaBusiness

Oversight meeting:
* Second project being worked on, involving medical equipment

Donation safety:
* Central government can not take the money as it is established in the USA
  and thus has no jurisdiction
* Only the 6 person oversight committee has control of spending
* The USD 15,000 was transferred directly to a local foundation

Federal aid:
* Places that don't have COVID-19 are not getting as much federal aid.
* This is part of why the Bay Islands is running the fundraising initiatives
* The Bay Islands have always been more private sector driven

Makeup of Oversight Board:
* Not specifically from any place in the Bay Islands
* As things progress, will setup technical committees and there are 5 currently
  planned:
  * Medical
  * One for each county

Treatment centre:
* Yes it's on Roatan, but it can be used to help people on the other islands
* The same will be the case for testing, it'll be run out of Roatan
* Roatan is being used as the central hub as it's 80% of the population of the
  Bay Islands

Using the donations for food:
* There's a lot of foundations managing food right now, about USD 50,000 was
  distributed for food bags.
* Want to avoid people doubling down on food bags.
* If local authorities suggest that food is important and the oversight
  committee agrees then it might be done in the future.
* This isn't likely to start until food donation organisations start having
  trouble getting food.
* Want the funds to extend as long as possible

Ideas for projects to use the donated funds:
* Send them to the governor or the COVID-19 Facebook page

Help from the cruise lines:
* They haven't offered any at this time

COVID-19
--------

Test results:
* Still waiting on results from police, they got tests which were reported as
  negative but the paperwork hasn't been supplied to the Bay Islands yet

Travel
--------

Flights to the USA:
* 2020-04-30: 2 United flights SAP-IAH and TGU-IAH
* No flights scheduled from RTB currently

Bringing people home:
* Small groups, no more than 15
* Emergency situations will be first
* Looking at logistics, room and board
* Difficult to get COVID-19 kits, difficult to get to the islands. There are 3
  potential offers being negotiated, once one of them is successful things will
  speed up.
* Once we have tests, we can potentially self quarantine people rather than
  putting them in main quarantine area.

Incoming flights to RTB:
* This will be possible once we have testing setup

Getting to the mainland:
* Only way is by private plane and it's expensive
* There aren't currently any scheduled flights between the islands and the
  mainland

Businesses
----------

Cargo boats:
* Met with owners of all cargo and fuel boats
* Gave warnings to some because they haven't been meeting quarantine measures.

Small business assistance:
* If in the tourism industry, please hold your employees as long as possible
* Look into a labour lawyer to see what your options are if you're on the edge
  of bankruptcy.
* Each business has to make its own decision based on finances.

Tourism industry:
* A stimulus package just for tourism is being worked on at the federal level
* It's not yet approved, will wait until it is to share details as they may
  still change.
* Changes in taxation is potentially in this.

Local taxes:
* The only governmental agency that can change taxes is congress.
* Local government would need to file a lawsuit to avoid charging taxes.
* It is possible to do payment plans though.

Labour Day (Friday, May 1):
* Haven't addressed whether banks etc will be open or closed

General
-------

Lock down/reopen timeline:
* Article by a university suggests end of May for curve flattening around the
  world
* No current timeline yet though
* US and Canada are big players for setting the timeline for the Bay Islands
* No timeline for opening the rest of Honduras yet either

Local opening:
* Soon, biosecurity guidelines have been written up, currently doing translation

Monday and Tuesday:
* Updates postponed due to lots of meetings
* Starting to plan for post COVID-19

Crime:
* Government is trying to keep things under control
* Recommends that businesses have cameras
* This is why food is so important, that's the main driver of crime

Pregnancy and birth at hospital:
* Will look into transfer from Utila to Roatan for the birth if this case needs
  it
* Many people are having natural births right now, it's complicated

Road project:
* Mainland people did not come over for this project
* Some of the people on this project were trying to go La Ceiba, but got
  rejected

Schools:
* No decision yet as to when they'll be open

Questions pending answers:
* Should be kept track of in the daily facts updates
