---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-04-21"
date: 2020-04-21T16:00:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-04-21 16:00"
tags: [
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "donations",
  "facebook-live",
  "quarantine-breech",
  "returning-islanders",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-04-21
16:00](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/1165470643794091)

Content starts at 06:05

The is a transcript of the English transmission. There is also a [Spanish
transmission](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/1122599894774257)
which I do not translate.

Note that it's been re-ordered and some repetition collapsed.

Donations
---------

Matching Donation:
* Reminder that anything donated to the foundation will be doubled as of
  Friday. Every donation is needed, no matter how small.

Fundraising:
* Current total (excluding the amount pledged for matching):
  USD 203,735; HNL 5,052,668
  * USD 35,075 still available as matching funds
* https://themakeitcountfoundation.org/
* Donate to the foundation you're most comfortable with, there are many (for
  example the Sol International).
* First project will be presented to the oversight committee soon, no money has
  been spent yet.

Utila fundraising:
* http://www.SupportUtila.org
* If you are on Utila in need of food, Tylenol or Aspirin, please send a
  message to @SupportUtila on Facebook

Food bags:
* Estimates that around 26,000 food bags have been given out.

COVID-19
--------

Testing:
* 32 samples taken and negative

Quarantine breach testing:
* Police tested, no results back yet though
* Woman who snuck onto Utila: should be tested in La Ceiba

Travel
------

United flying into Roatan soon?
* No information at this time

Getting to SAP for a flight out of Honduras:
* Charter a plane. Boats are less successful.

US is talking about opening up at the end of May, so that's the current
expectation for when the Bay Islands will open.

General
-------

Boat issues:
* Sunday:
  * See yesterdays post for the details.
    * They had permission for the boat from the marine merchant, but local
      authorities were not notified.
    * Lack of notification causes fear. No one knew about it and that caused
      issues.
* Today:
  * 2 supply boats, which bring food to Roatan and some supplies for a cruise
    ship port. They were all well known and are professionally run.
* In order to keep the islands functional, cargo boats can come as long as they
  meet the criteria:
  * No one may get off the boat
  * Local authorities must be notified ahead of time

Boat arrivals:
* Request for port authorities not notify people to avoid confusion, it's being
  looked into.
* Sundays outcry was called for by the port authority as the boat was unknown
  to them.

Taxis and Bus protests on Roatan:
* Many people are desperate from having no income for 5 weeks
* We need to work together to solve peoples problems, not drive conflict.

Getting to stores after the protests yesterday:
* Some people who were meant to go yesterday had issues being permitted by
  police today.
* If you have a complaint about an interaction with a police officer, it's
  important to get their name (which is on their shirt).
* One of the banks also misunderstood, but opened up at 11:00

Reports of people ignoring curfew:
* Please take photos and send to the governors office. It's important to have
  details in a report so the police can follow up.
* Churches, in particular, are ignoring curfew restrictions. Please report them.

West End Video:
* West End Water Taxi association created [a
  video](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/222676379058755/)
  about how they're patrolling
* Shows off how organised they are and that no one gets into West End without
  authorisation.

Estimate return to work date:
* Many employees furloughed as the law permits doing so for 90-120 days in an
  emergency like this.
* Have been asking employers to keep paying staff, but it's difficult and up to
  each employer.
