---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-04-06"
date: 2020-04-06T15:50:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-04-06 15:50"
tags: [
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "curfew",
  "delivery",
  "diving",
  "donations",
  "facebook-live",
  "fishing",
  "local-business",
  "segmented-circulation",
  "returning-islanders",
  "testing",
  "transport",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-04-06
15:50](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/532631524327969)

The is a transcript of the English transmission. There is also a [Spanish
transmission](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/532631524327969) which I do not translate.

Given I'm late in writing mine up, the [Official
summary](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/photos/a.172315433411807/556372775006069/)
has also been posted.

Note that it's been re-ordered and some repetition collapsed.

Donations
---------

Fundraising:
* Current total: USD 118,916; HNL 2,943,432

Corruption:
* This is why the foundation is legally established in the USA and the website
  is transparent.
* https://themakeitcountfoundation.org/
* No spending yet, still fundraising and planning. Commission will be
  responsible for the spending to ensure it's used responsibly.

Utila fundraising:
* http://www.SupportUtila.org
* Over USD 7,000

Curfew
------

Reminder: It only takes one case to wipe out an island.

Semana Santa:
* Semana Santa holidays are cancelled this year.
* This is not the time to be on the beach, it's not a holiday, please stay home.
* The governor will be asking the police to ensure that no one is out.

Stay at home:
* Please plan ahead so you're not tempted to go shopping on days which are not
  your allocated day. A single bottle of shampoo (for example) is not
  justification to go out.
* Philippines has taken a shoot on sight policy for anyone who's out. That's
  crazy, but it's an example of how serious this is.
* San Pedro Sula is so bad they've had to close all supermarkets

Opening up for local business:
* Can send list of employees and what hours you'd like to work (within the
  limits of the curfew) to the chamber of commerce to apply for a permit.
* Essential businesses only. For example, no discos.
* All of these petitions will be sent to Tegucigalpa as a package to approve.

Hardware stores:
* Probably open Mon, Wed, Fri

Hours:
* [New press release](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/posts/555511288425551?__tn__=-R) for:
  * Supermarkets
  * Banks
  * Gasoline stations
  * Pharmacies
* Now open until 17:00 Mon, Wed, Fri
* 07:00-09:00 is only for those who are vulnerable. Please don't use those
  hours if you're not in the vulnerable group.
* Some supermarkets doing delivery Tue and Thu
* Senior is classified as 65 and older

Spreading out the number of people at a supermarket:
* There has been a discussion of opening every day and having one number on
  most days so there are fewer people on any given day.

Churches:
* Do your sermons remotely with video conferencing.
* First spread of COVID-19 in Honduras was due to someone going to church.
  Please don't replicate that on the Bay Islands.

Domestic Staff:
* Can work
* They need to have a uniform or something to identify what they're doing

Fishing:
* Allowed from a private boat
* Small crew and contained area.
* There's a group in Pineapple Villas which is providing food for the local
  community, this helps a lot.
* Travel between islands is still prohibited, please stay local.

Diving:
* Depends on what you're doing
* Shops selling diving is going to be a problem
* If have own gear, boat etc, maybe. Fishing is permitted because it's
  collecting food for people (and often more than those doing the fishing). 
* Reach out to governor if you want to check
* Lionfish hunting is OK as long as it's not commercial (and doesn't use
  commercial equipment).

COVID-19
-------

Current tests:
* 23 clear, 2 pending

Extra kits for Utila:
* Kits are for the Bay Islands. Don't dilute the effort, the kits we have (and
  the ones we're getting) are for all the islands.

Masks:
* Mandatory as of Tuesday.
* Bay Islands trying to comply.

Travel
------

Illegals:
* Some people arrived illegally. They have been quarantined.
* If you're suspicious, please send a picture, audio recording or other data
  that can help the authorities to follow up. Currently there's a lot of false
  positives.
* 2 days ago on the east end of Roatan

Return for residents:
* Before anyone is allowed back on the island, we need to have the rapid
  response kits that return results in 15-30 minutes.
* Need to have quarantine area setup too.
* Once we have the test kits, we'll be able to allow people to return home
  immediately without a quarantine.
* All the Honduran authorities are making decisions as a unit.

Flights:
* Every day is changing, this quarantine should end April 12, but we just don't
  know and given there's a huge rise in cases San Pedro Sula it seems likely
  this will extend.
* Canada and the USA will also help determine this as they are the biggest
  markets for the islands and their numbers are skyrocketing.

BYO test kits:
* Won't be accepted as a way of getting back into the islands
* Need to have a known quality and consistency of results

General
-------

Volunteer Profile:
* Please leave lots of positive comments on the volunteer profiles. They put in
  a lot of work, especially the translators.

Hospital this morning:
* A young man was shot. Because it was a violent crime, there needs to be an
  autopsy, but the family just wanted to bury them.

Getting message out:
* Many people don't have access to the internet
* Doctors have been doing a great job going to community boards to get the
  message out.

Malaria treatments:
* Have good stocks
