---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-06-24"
date: 2020-06-24T09:00:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-06-24 09:00"
tags: [
  "airlines",
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "biosecurity",
  "covid-24",
  "doctors",
  "facebook-live",
  "quarantine",
  "returning-islanders",
  "travel",
  "treatment",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-06-24
09:00](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/268333784422368) and
the [second
part](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/1451907234997439)

Starts at 02:00, there is a glitch at 04:20 and then it continues in the second
part at 3:00. The transmission is cut short due to a power outage, as was my
work writing this summary up.

The Spanish transmission can be found [here](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/593457661303189/)

COVID-19 Testing and Treatment
------------------------------

Cases:
* 278 people tested from the Bay Islands
* 99 PCR confirmed cases
  * Of the 168 tests run recently, only 28 came back with COVID-19
  * These tests are being done based on both symptoms and contact tracing
* All in Roatan and Santos Guardiola
* No cases in Utila
* Guanaja has some positive quick tests, but these have not yet been
  confirmed via PCR
* 110 outstanding tests

Test kits:
* These will be sent to all the Bay Islands, not just kept on Roatan
* Tests are being sent to Guanaja and Utila once they have arrived in Roatan
* Any additional assistance that can be offered to any of the islands for test
  kits is welcomed

Lockdown:
* The only way the governors team sees a lockdown being effective is if test
  results start to return 80-90% positive.
* They are hoping to keep the impact as localised as possible

Test results and antibodies:
* The PCR tests just show active infection, the are not an antibody test

Recoveries:
* Don't have statistics on this as tests are being saved to detect new cases

Quarantine:
* After quarantine in the treatment center, people are sent home to continue
  quarantining at home for a total quarantine of 21 days.

How often has the governor been tested:
* 3 rapid tests
* Hasn't done any PCR tests as they're being saved for those who really need
  them

Travel and Immigration
----------------------

Returning non-resident home owners:
* Fill in the forms for returning to the islands

Flight authorisations:
* These are authorised by SINAGER, not the governor.

International travel:
* No dates yet

General
-------

Masks:
* Many people are carrying masks and not putting them on, often simply asking
  nicely will get them to do so. Publicly shaming often works if asking nicely
  does not.

Community leader program:
* Pilot project in Roatan
* Aim is to teach people how COVID-19 spreads and how important biosecurity
  measures are.
* This should help those who do not have access to the internet get important
  information and learn about COVID-19

RECO:
* March, April, May are the months where people are meant to be helped, but
  people are getting lights cut for failure to pay and this is getting lots of
  complaints
* This is being investigated by the municipality

[Volunteer sign up form](https://forms.gle/ja8CtoHGA1Dx3JgaA):
* For any medical worker who wants to come to the Bay Islands and assist
* Bay Islands medical staff have been working non-stop for 100 days and really
  need the assistance.

Fishing fleet:
* Hard work by them to get approved by central government
* This is unrelated to rumors of the lockdown

Sahara storm:
* Will impact anyone with breathing issues or allergies
* If you might be impacted, stay indoors for the next 3-4 days

Plan for restarting tourism:
* There is a plan that's been developed. Waiting for approval from the central
  government and mayors office.
* Developed with the Bay Islands Tourism Bureau
