---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-05-04"
date: 2020-05-04T09:30:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-05-04 09:30"
tags: [
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "cargo",
  "covid-19",
  "facebook-live",
  "local-business",
  "reopening",
  "returning-islanders",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-05-04
09:30](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/241052733620397)
(starts at 02:40).

This is a transcript of the English transmission. There is also a [Spanish
transmission](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/4441021749256828)
which I do not translate.

Note that it's been re-ordered and some repetition collapsed.

Mondays donation summary is being pushed to 15:00 Tuesday due to schedule
conflicts.

COVID-19
--------

Test results:
* Still at zero cases of COVID-19 on the Bay Islands
  * Only 3 departments free of COVID-19 at this time, Bay Islands is one of them
* 33 tests completed
  * 3 on Utila
  * 1 on Guanaja
  * Population of Utila and Guanaja is approximately 20,000. This is not enough

Cases:
* 1,000 in mainland
  * 700 in Cortez (where San Pedro Sula is)

Equipment:
* Still trying to get equipment, it's very difficult to get though as all
  countries are hoarding.
* Need PCR readers, main issue is getting them to the Bay Islands due to global
  demand.

Testing locations:
* Tegucigalpa
* San Pedro Sula

Bringing people back to the islands vs opening up locally:
* These goal conflict. We can't open up locally and bring people who may be
  infected with COVID-19 back onto the islands.
* If we get a case on the islands, there will be a much stricter lock down than
  what we have today.
* There's no authority/jurisdiction to open locally without permission from
  central government

Travel
--------

Getting people back home to the Bay Islands
* Was a protest, understands the anger. Right to protest and agree that people
  should be able to come home. Problem is getting the equipment to be able to
  do so responsibly.
* In order to protect people in the Bay Islands, need to have plans for many
  different scenarios
  * Example given for the negative side: plane brings in 18 people, put them in
    a hotel, everyone wears biosecurity gear. If one person has COVID-19, then
    instead of being a quarantine centre, it's a mini hospital and there's only
    about 200 health workers for the entire Bay Islands. This will pull
    resources from clinics and hospitals to deal with the situation. 
  * Hospital is dealing with 24/7 issues right now, lots more accidents.
  * Preferred protocol: people arrive on plane, everyone gets tested and then
    they can go home.
* Currently limited manpower, managing a 14 day quarantine would be difficult
  (especially if someone come over infected)
* Financial oversight committee is looking into renting space off of the
  islands for doing quarantine
* The governor also has family stuck on the mainland who want to come back

Cruise ships:
* Expect them to implement testing before people board

Guanaja and Utila brought people in, why not Roatan:
* Recommendation was not to, but local authorities made the decision to anyway

People coming from Cayman Islands:
* These people are going to La Ceiba

Estimate of travel being open:
* United have flights scheduled for the end of May, but not entirely sure

Health protocols:
* No scheduled flights in, once those are scheduled we'll discuss protocols
  with them

Utila Ferry to Roatan:
* Going to look into that as soon as the Bay Islands are opened up locally

Repatriation flights to the UK:
* No more flights that they know of

General
-------

New measures:
* 1 number per day over a 10 day period (Saturday and Sunday are forbidden)
  * So we get to do shopping every other week
  * Pulperias and small community stores are still open until 20:00 every day
    for everyone within walking distance (1 km).
    * Can go to the closest one if there are none within walking distance.
  * Local officials are fighting for exceptions for the Bay Islands
  * Governor recommends getting friends to do shopping for each other to manage
    the two week 

Government organisation summary:
* Government in Honduras is either federal or local, there's not really much
  state infrastructure.
* Governor has very little authority locally, but can still work on our behalf
* Governor is appointed

Federal help for the Bay Islands:
* Plan is to pay 56% of salaries for those in the tourism industry.
  * This hasn't been fully approved yet. Will let us know when it's approved.
* Recommend working with chamber of commerce and Bay Islands tourism bureau

Communication for those without social media:
* Broadcast on TV
* Talking to community leaders

Seeing a doctor:
* If you're sick, you're allowed to go

Goods into the islands:
* As of now, still receiving all supplies
* Customs is not impacted
* No plan to limit cargo incoming, especially food

Getting vaccines for children:
* Some cargo boats have refrigeration, talk to them

Dive Shops:
* Asking for exceptions, still waiting on federal government

Keeping roads open:
* This is national, not municipal police

Police for crime instead of ID:
* Crime is a higher priority for the police than checking IDs
* Relying on help from people to report issues
* Roatan detention centres are packed, still arresting people as necessary
  though

Protesting:
* Please don't block all lanes so that people can still get shopping etc done
* Protests are also mass gatherings which are dangerous
* If you're protesting, stay on the sides of the road or the police will move
  you
* Governor has already met with these people 6 times

Masks:
* Roatan Mayors office is working on a way to get masks to those who can not
  afford to get masks
