---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-03-26"
date: 2020-03-26T15:15:15-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-03-26 15:15"
tags: [
  "airlines",
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "facebook-live",
  "food",
  "testing",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-03-26
15:15](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/247262823117262)

Skip to 41:50 to get to English.

Note that it's been re-ordered and some repetition collapsed.

COVID-19
-------

* 16 samples so far, all have come back negative
* 5 kits sent out today (including the north american person who passed away)

14 days after curfew start, remove restrictions?
* Being discussed
* Not as we had it before, but more open
* More information in the next couple of days

Rapid response kits:
* Have had an offer of a donation of 300 rapid response kits. 

Ventilators:
* 1 private, no public
* Central government is sending 4-5 to bay islands

Mobile clinic:
* Reassigned to place with COVID-19 as Bay Islands doesn't have it yet.
* Have two quarantine zones setup already

Cure and Vaccine:
* There are none, please stay home as that's the best remedy we know.

Flights and Travel
------------------

General:
* There are flights on both American and United, if you need to leave the
  country then take those flights, no matter what your final destination is.
  Please don't wait on government flights from any country.
* Prices have been reduces on flights out

Europeans:
* Spanish people picked up by naval force so they could get a flight to Europe
* Asked for a list of UK citizens trying to get back there
* Germans and Dutch: No updates

USA:
* American and United few today
* American has seats available on Friday

Returning to the Bay Islands:
* Please trust us, we don't have the capacity to bring people home.
* 3 step process to bring people home: Quantify, plan, execute
  * Currently in the quantify stage (working out where people are so we can
    work out how to get them home)
* Please make a 30 day plan
* Lottery has been suggested: Looking into the viability.

People transported via canoes and cargo ships:
* Will sink boats bringing people illegally into the islands as they represent
  a huge risk
* The canoes are coming from places with confirmed cases
* If you see an illegal boat, please report to one of the following:
  * Marine merchant
  * Naval force
  * Mayors office
  * All the authorities
* Will post numbers
* Suggestion of bounty system for tracking illegal boats. Will look into it.

Testing before flight:
* Great idea, but getting tests is very difficult so this is probably not
  practical.
* If you can get tested, get tested and send Dino the result, then they can
  make a decision.

Standby:
* Today was the first day with empty seats (7 today).
* Some people haven't been canceling reservations, please do so if you leave.
* About 20 people for tomorrow
* Going doesn't guarantee you're going, but it's good to have volunteers in
  case someone doesn't show up.

General
-------

Builders doing private work:
* Not permitted, please report any such activity

Suggestions on things to do:
* Press conference by New York governor, which is the largest outbreak in the
  USA
  * Lots to learn from their response
  * Learned things such as why ventilators are important. Regular patients need
    ventilators for 4-5 days, COVID-19 needs them for 14-15 days.

Donations:
* Setting up website for this

Staying home:
* Please stay home, lots of people aren't and that's not helping

Doctors from mainland:
* If need other specialists, will be difficult, no one allowed on island (would
  need to have 14 day quarantine)
* Need people to travel to mainland

La Ceiba port shutdown:
* Will use Cortez or Castilla if it shuts down
* Mayor of La Ceiba reiterates that they'd never close cargo

Church:
* Too many people getting together, not permitted to open
