---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-04-07"
date: 2020-04-07T15:50:00-07:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-04-07 15:50"
tags: [
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "curfew",
  "diving",
  "donations",
  "facebook-live",
  "fishing",
  "local-business",
  "returning-islanders",
  "testing",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-04-07
15:50](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/540014786688146)

The is a transcript of the English transmission. There is also a [Spanish
transmission](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/229061728309461) which I do not translate.

Note that it's been re-ordered and some repetition collapsed.

Donations
---------

Fundraising:
* Current total: USD 120,716; HNL 2,987,986
* https://themakeitcountfoundation.org/
* 3 purposes: 
  * Food
  * Medical Equipment
  * Medicine
* Currently fundraising and working out how best to use the funds
* Expect it to be a long term problem, at least 60 days, so planning to spread
  it out.

Utila fundraising:
* http://www.SupportUtila.org

Food distribution:
* If your community hasn't got food, please let the governors team know and
  they'll work out how to get you help.
* Have to prove that you're in this situation due to the loss of tourism
* USD 9,000 in food was distributed recently

Curfew
------

Reminder: It only takes one case to wipe out an island.

Lifting Curfew:
* Currently scheduled to lift on the 12th of April. This could change
* Trying to get exceptions for the Bay Islands, but it's difficult

COVID-19
-------

It only takes one positive person on an island to create a problem

Test results:
* 23 negative
* 2 pending

Protocol for those suspected of having COVID-19:
* They are screened and then tested depending on the screening questions.
  * Tests are sent to Tegucigalpa to process, which takes time.
  * Usually freighted by the air force, otherwise the mayor flies them, but both
    are very busy, so sometimes there's some delay
* New lab in San Pedro Sula, which is cheaper and closer for analysing the
  longer tests

Rapid response test kits:
* Large number were donated to Honduras yesterday
  * Looking at ways to get more tests with the donations raised
* These are critical to the islands
* New tests are made in Korea, which is a leader in testing and managing
  COVID-19. Rapid tests to everyone that's suspected.
  * If positive, then don't have to test further
  * If negative, will run the longer test
* The new tests and protocols will make it easier for us to provide a way to
  allow people back into the islands
* USA has prohibited any medical equipment from leaving the country as it's the
  highest number of cases in the world

Bringing people back:
* All our sacrifices will be in vein if we allow anyone with COVID-19 onto the
  islands. So, please have patience while we get the protocols sorted and
  acquire test kits.
* Once we have the rapid response kits and the protocols, we'll be able to work
  out a way to bring people back.

Travel
------

Utila:
* Lots of reports of people trying to come in both illegally and with the
  blessings of the authorities.
* A discussion on Utila about letting people onto the islands from La Ceiba.
  * Governor is waiting to hear from the mayor
  * Rapid response test kits important for this case.

Returning people:
* No word yet on when people will be able to return
* Anyone with a primary residency, not just citizens, will be covered once we
  start to repatriate people

General
-------

Volunteer profile:
* [Miss Syntia Solomon](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/posts/556828381627175)

Medical emergencies:
* Difficult for Roatan to take people, there's no orthopaedic doctor so broken
  bones can't be taken in.
* Once people go to the mainland they have to stay there.
* Would need to put people in 

Diving:
* Port captain says people can't dive in own boats.
  * Broadcasting of "let's go diving" is problematic.
  * If you want to go diving, put a document together and present it to the
    port authority on Monday, Wednesday or Friday for their permission.
* Fishing has an exception for humanitarian reasons.

Fishing:
* Line permitted, spear is not. Please be careful of the species you target.

2 Boats near Palmeto:
* Fishing boats. Marine park came out and chatted with them.
* Please keep reporting when you see suspicious boats.

RECO meeting tomorrow

Business taxes:
* You shouldn't have sales taxes if you haven't had sales
* President mentioned that income taxes will be delayed, waiting to hear details

Board of education:
* Meeting with them tomorrow

Food boats:
* Still regularly arriving from USA, La Ceiba and Port of Cortez
* Being inspected and sprayed down before delivering food
* Bigger concern is people being able to buy food, not getting it to the islands
* Utila: Lots of boats (three) to provide food, shouldn't be a concern. Please
  send photos to the governor is places are empty and we need help getting food
  into the island.
  * If there are other logistical problems, please let the governor know so
    they can help out.

Abbot Labs Test:
* Have been talking with them via Rotary
* Going to be difficult to get because of export controls from the USA

Antimalarial:
* Have excellent stocks. No concern there.

Banks:
* Will not be closed for good Friday because of the crisis
