---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-03-24"
date: 2020-03-24T16:45:15-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-03-24 16:45"
tags: [
  "absolute-curfew",
  "airlines",
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "facebook-live",
  "food",
  "testing",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-03-24
16:45](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/147041363296961)

Cut to 30 minute 40 seconds for English.

[the second part at
17:10](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/172317223730276/).

Cut to 1 minute 23 seconds to skip technical issues.

Note that it's been re-ordered and some repetition collapsed.

Also, there's some Spanish intermixed and my Spanish is insufficient to
translate it.

Curfew
------

Requirements to lift curfew:
* It's going to be difficult
* Adopt a policy of buying locally, support local businesses until tourists
  arrive
* Once global situation is sorted, we'll be able to allow tourists

Internal business after quarantine finished:
* Talked with Mayor of Roatan today
* Important for us to maintain zero positive cases. If we do manage this, we'll
  be one of the few places that managed it, which will make the Bay Islands
  very attractive for tourists.
  * Need to invest in quick tests to be viable
* Goal is to open up internally for business as soon as we can
* Governor understands, he hasn't had any sales since March 13 and has not let
  any employees go
* More tests this week and then make a decision

COVID-19
-------

Tests:
* One test pending of a deceased West Bay person, suspected drug overdose but
  checking for COVID-19 just to be sure and doing toxicology to discover how he
  passed away.
* All other tests are back and negative, 16 total so far

French doctor protocol and treatment:
* quinolone and zithromax, islands have these drugs but (transmission has a
  technical error and cuts out)

Groceries etc
---------------

Open tomorrow:
* Banks: Believe they will be open Wednesday, don't have the documents yet
  * This will allow people to pay overstay fees
* Pharmacies: Yes
* Supermarkets: In the works
* Petrol stations: Yes, Wed and Friday 08:00 to 12:00
* More things will open as we continue to have zero cases

Utila Bank:
* Difficult time, sorry but try alternatives such as debit from a business 

Alcohol:
* This is not the time to be drinking alcohol
* You need to determine if it's legal or not

Food drive:
* Copeco office in front of new Roatan mayors office, 09:00 - 17:00 to drop off
  food for those in need. Non perishables are preferred.
* Run by congressman Ron McNab

Eldons:
* Pickup OK as long as you don't get out of your car
* Doing deliveries

Cargo ship to Roatan:
* Will look into it and clarify

Hardware stores:
* Looking into it

Flights
-------

Canada:
* No current flights, on standby

USA:
* American Airlines
  * Waiting for official announcements, but should be one on Thursday and one
    on Friday (26th and 27th)
* Delta:
  * No news
*  United
  * Opening up Tegucigalpa, San Pedro Sula, and Roatan to IAH
  * Day 2 of confirmed flights, lots of people getting home
  * According to the Bay Islands systems, United is flying all the way to the
    31st.
  * There are two flights on Saturday and Sunday

Return to Honduras
* Still can't let people in for the health of the island
* Not yet sure of the timeline, rough estimate is 30 days from today.
  * USA is currently number 3 and it's getting worse, we need to keep the bay
    islands safe and we only have 100 quarantine beds.

Water for the flights after security:
* Will ask airport management

Special Permits from Utila
* Aircraft need permissions, even for internal
* Troy Bodden Jr. has been running flights from Utila
* Not specific to British nationals

General
-------

Stay inside:
* Know it's hard, we're also active people, but it's for the good of the islands
* Please don't go cycling for fun
* Only go out for medical supplies, groceries and emergencies
  * Shame people for going out for other reasons if you see them

Helicopter:
* Authorised to go to San Mesa in French harbor. Issue with it going to Pepsi
  to drop off equipment, but they didn't notify authorities.
* No one got off the helicopter
* Company and Pepsi have been talked to about not doing such a thing again

Fundraising
* Volunteer has a has a 501(c)3 which people can contribute through, via things
  like Go Fund Me
* To buy ventilators, medical equipment and beds
  * Will put up options to fund
* Lots of people need to eat and are in a bad way
* Project from Roatan mayors office is 1,500 HNL as a one time. Not yet sure
  how long it'll run. Similar to food stamps in the USA. Going to try it out
  and see how it works.
* Also contemplating setting up a Bay Islands Go Fund Me

Sanction investor pouring cement on reef
* Not sure what's being asked about here

Registering for aid for laid off employees
* Mayors office in Roatan has forms to register
* Unemployment is a major concern
