---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-05-06"
date: 2020-05-06T09:30:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-05-06 09:30"
tags: [
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "cargo",
  "covid-19",
  "facebook-live",
  "local-business",
  "protest",
  "reopening",
  "returning-islanders",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-05-06
09:30](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/592982601575111)
(starts at 04:40).

This is a transcript of the English transmission. There is also a [Spanish
transmission](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/533208640702401)
which I do not translate.

Travel
--------

Requirements for international flights
* Waiting on the airlines to decide they're ready. It's up to them not the
  islands
  * Was difficult to get United to come in and pick people up, there's good
    relationships there but islands will need to open up locally
* Currently looking at end of May
* President is handing more power to approve flights to state and local
  authorities

General
-------

News reports of islands being fully open:
* These were wrong and were corrected

Meeting with marchers:
* No recordings, lots of emotion, very productive
* Long meeting: 10:00-14:00
* Native islander doctors attended and gave some very useful speeches
  * It's not primarily an economic crisis, it's a medical crisis
  * Statistics:
    * Roatan public hospital has 70 beds, COVID-19 center has 30
    * Anticipating that 20% of the population of the islands will get it and
      that will mean 1,150 people need to be hospitalised. Problematic given
      that we only have 100 beds.
  * Lack of discipline:
    * Dengue, malaria and tuberculosis all exist in the Bay Islands
    * Roatan has the second highest level of HIV in Honduras
      * Could be simply avoided using protection, but there's a lack of
        discipline
      * Doctors are worried that this lack of discipline will exacerbate the
        spread of COVID-19 when it arrives
  * Lack of PPE and testing is a huge issue
* Doctors who attended:
  * Dr Paul Gail
  * Dr Raymond Cherrington
  * Dr Stacy Suniga
  * Dr Regina Coleman
  * Dr Favian
  * Dr Fermi
  * An infectologist who's working pro-bono (the governor apologised for
    forgetting her name)
* Conclusions:
  * 2 person commission that gets information from authorities and spreads it
    to the population
  * Agreed that can't currently bring in people
  * The commission will collect information about people in dire needs and
    transmit that to the authorities for assistance 

Can individuals provide quarantine locations if they're willing to pay for
guards?
* No: this is what was done in Tegucigalpa and they let the person go to church,
  which caused 8 cases.

Hotels for quarantine:
* These are being looked into. Bringing people into the islands will be case by
  case though, for example it'll be difficult to bring people in from San Pedro
  Sula due to the high infection rate there.

Child who died on the mainland:
* Working with the family at the moment

Request for a weekly newsletter:
* Governor will do this

Businesses return to normal:
* Have sent a proposal, waiting on reply

Improving quality of national police:
* Letters from the people will help here

Handicap stickers:
* No official stickers, you can print one as it's an emergency
