---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-05-25"
date: 2020-05-25T07:50:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-05-25 07:50"
tags: [
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "facebook-live",
  "local-business",
  "quarantine-breech",
  "reopening",
  "returning-islanders",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-05-25
07:50](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/552008705490360)

Starts at 01:30

The Spanish tramission can be found [here](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/265361654839357/)

Will aim to be on at 08:00 tomorrow to answer more questions

Oversight committee report at 15:00 tomorrow

People Smuggling
----------------

COVID tests and quarantine
* First case confirmed
* Please don't blame anyone, we're all in this together as a department
* People in quarantine have been responsible and stayed there
* 15 people tested from the smuggled in group
  * 8 results returned: 1 positive, 7 negative
  * 7 results pending

Actions to take:
* Start reporting and publicly shaming people who wish to come illegally or are
  promoting coming illegally to others
  * There is a system in place to bring islanders back so those who wish to
    come back will be able to so do in the coming couple of weeks. A trip
    have been scheduled this week.
* If you know anything about the people who smuggled people to the islands,
  please report them. There is a reward.
* If you are a family member or friend who came into contact with any of those
  who have come in illegally, please go and get tested

Smuggler:
* Have information about one person, including a photo
* They were _not_ from Sandy Bay
* If you have the name and/or picture of others, please send them to the
  governor. Will be treated as an anonymous tip.

Consequences for people smugglers:
* Not in that position right now. Need to find the problem and contain it.
* Just need to know how big this is, who was involved and who came into contact
  with those who might have been infected.

Islanders setting bad example:
* It's particularly unfortunate that the people who were smuggled on are
  islanders (who have a legitimate way to return). This sets a bad example for
  mainlanders.
* Concern that this will tempt mainlanders to head to the islands as things
  deteriorate.

Pressuring people to talk
* The government is not going to torture people or threaten them to talk
* Working on a "no harm no foul" approach to get them to provide more
  information about the smuggling scheme and operators voluntarily

Planning and Next Steps
-----------------------

Process for deportees wanting to return to the Bay Islands:
* Go through the process for bringing people back from La Ceiba

Repatriation from USA:
* Working on returning people from the mainland first, then will do USA

Preparing for COVID-19 on the islands:
* Stocking up on medicine
* Plan to bring people home
* Working closely with doctors and specialists to make scientifically based
  decisions.

Long term plan:
* Plan is to slowly open, this is what this week's reopen test is part of
* Working with chamber of tourism for international reopening which was to be
  next
* This has been slowed due to a COVID-19 case appearing on the island, now we
  need to make sure it's contained before we can restart the opening process.

General
-------

RECO:
* No full solution yet
* If you have an problem with a RECO bill, remember that April is a month you
  don't have to pay

Construction workers:
* Can work if you have a salvo conducto
* Salvo conduto is a special permit that allows a project to continue despite
  the lock down

Business operation permits:
* No discounts at this time
* Municipal taxes are based on volumes of sales, so next year when you apply
  for your permit it'll be cheaper due to the low volume of sales

Taxis:
* Not permitted at this time

Close border between Santos Guardiola and rest of island:
* Entire island is in this together, no internal borders will be closed on
  Roatan

Rapid Testing:
* Do rapid testing to get an idea of infection rates and act as a first pass
  filter to decide who to PCR test
* PCR testing is slower, much more expensive and there are fewer tests available

NGOs supplying food:
* They are welcome to continue

Contact tracing:
* The governor will do an update describing this process

Some people still believe that COVID-19 is fake, so we still have education to
do
