---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-05-11"
date: 2020-05-11T09:30:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-05-11 09:30"
tags: [
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "facebook-live",
  "reopening",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-05-11
09:30](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/1417659535072780)

This is a transcript of the English transmission, which starts at 15:50.

Transmission cut short due to tech issues.

Fundraising updates will now be Tuesday and Friday at 15:00

COVID-19
--------

Testing:
* 35 negative tests

General
-------

Opening locally:
* Was expecting to get authorisation on Friday, but that didn't occur.
  * Pressing the federal government daily to change this.
  * Tegucigalpa is starting to open up.
  * Application originally submitted 2 weeks ago, revised Monday last week.
  * Authority required by the national police, their jobs are at risk if they
    allow local opening without permission from Tegucigalpa.

Ex police chief:
* Not sure what he as, could be COVID-19 or dengue or something else
* He came in on the 9th of April, 33 days ago. Doctors suggest that whatever he
  has was contracted in Cortez, which is the most virulent place in Honduras
  * If he had it when he arrived in Roatan, should have been hospitalised two
    weeks later.
  * Two police officers from Cortez, where he was, have COVID-19

Crime:
* Search warrant executed over weekend.
  * Evidence of a number of Sandy Bay crimes found
  * Two arrests made, a third pending

Sailboat off coast of Roatan:
* Hearsay about Guatemalans coming ashore. Didn't have authorisation so that
  will be looked into 

Watch posts:
* Roatan mayors office project
* Checking for and stopping vehicles involved in crimes
* Important to send any evidence you have of crimes to the government so they
  can follow up.

Claro office in Roatan closed:
* Possibly because they're in the mall, will investigate
