---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-07-31"
date: 2020-07-31T15:30:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-07-31 15:30"
tags: [
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "facebook-live",
  "quarantine",
  "reopening",
  "transport",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-07-31
15:30](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/597649214473031)

Starts at 02:15

The Spanish transmission can be found
[here](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/416364389315099/)

Transmissions are Monday and Friday.

COVID-19 Testing and Treatment
------------------------------

Cases
* 220 tests were pending, 93 have been processed recently
  * 11 positive cases of these 93
  * 127 pending still
* 980 PCR tests conducted so far for the Bay Islands since the start
  * 199 total positive tests total
  * 69 recuperated (via a second PCR test)
  * 3 dead, all with underlying conditions
    * 2 new cases were from Santos Guardiola
    * Total of 10 suspicious deaths, only 3 of which were COVID-19

Bay Islands PCR machine:
* Installed in Roatan
* First batch of 8 people done on 2020-07-30
* Who gets tested is based on the health department standards for those with
  mild to severe symptoms and those who are at risk.
* Please contact local health authorities if you or a friend/neighbour/family
  have a related health condition that seems to be getting worse
* All islands are part of the schedule

Self check:
* Oxygen saturation and temperature are key indicators
* Saturation meters are a more available item and doing this is cheaper than
  a COVID-19 test from the mainland which is HNL 5,000.
  * Doctors apparently also only charge HNL 200-500 for oxygen saturation tests
    (a basic appointment fee)

PCR vs Rapid Testing:
* PCR is reserved for those showing symptoms, front line personnel and those
  who are at risk and/or have chronic diseases.
* A positive rapid test does not always result in a PCR test
* The reason for not testing everyone who is rapid test positive is due to
  limited resources.
  * Those who test positive on a rapid test are asked to self quarantine
* 6,000 rapid tests (4,000 from the foundation) have been used so far (and some
  more from the various municipality offices, such as 2,000 in Guanaja)

Travel and Immigration
----------------------

Honduran citizens:
* The requirement for citizens to get an authorisation to leave the country has
  been lifted.

Returning to Honduras:
* Permission is still required for non-residents
* Citizens and residents can return without extra authorisation

Immigration:
* Immigration press releases have been confusing.
* Rotary and the chamber of tourism have volunteers to help sort out
  immigration questions.
  * Please be cordial to the volunteers who are trying to help get your
    questions answered.

International flights:
* No word on international travel out of RTB, governor feels it's a natural
  step after local reopening.
* International flights are still running out of TGU and SAP as the USA still
  has open borders.

Returning home after flying in:
* Get a loved one or friend to pick you up as taxis aren't hanging around the
  airports at this time.

General
-------

Reopening:
* Lots of chatter, but still no confirmed date yet
* Central government has promised that they'll provide a reopening date by
  Tuesday.
* Expect the digit system to continue into next week, Monday will be 6
* Weekend travel is still restricted

Guanaja medical equipment donation:
* Finalising a date with the local authorities to take the donated medical
  equipment over
* Should be next week

People wandering around the streets vs cars:
* Both should be stopped and checked for numbers, not just cars
* Will check into reports of street parties

Amazon Smile:
* If you buy from Amazon you can use smile.amazon.com to allocate 0.5% of your
  purchase to Utila

All inclusive hotels opening separately:
* These are not going to be opening up first or even separately
* Jamaica has been doing this as their all inclusive hotels are separated

Financial support from the central government:
* Bay Islands is on the list.
* Only municipality which has finished their due diligence paperwork at this
  time is Roatan
  * About HNL 2,200,000
* Other municipalities are still working on declaring how they're going to
  spend the money, which they need to do to get it. The money has been put
  aside for them though, so it's not going anywhere.
