---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-03-23"
date: 2020-03-23T16:45:15-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-03-23 16:45"
tags: [
  "absolute-curfew",
  "airlines",
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "facebook-live",
  "food",
  "testing",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-03-23
16:45](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/2904483686302541/).

Cut to 42 minutes to get to English

Note that it's been re-ordered and some repetition collapsed.

Chats
-----

Prescription chat:
* There is a new chat called [Medication
  Assist](https://chat.whatsapp.com/IcfolfmVj5EG2llS1N6OR0) for people with
  prescriptions that need filling and are unavailable.
  * Do not use for basic meds like tylenol

New chats:
* Islanders in the Mainland
* Islanders in the USA
* For those who have been living in the islands for multiple years and wish to
  come back
* Travel isn't yet permitted, the chats are so we can start organising
* We still have to wait 14 days to work out if people have it and the islands
  wish to ensure we don't get COVID-19

Number of chats:
* Know there's a lot of them, but 

COVID-19
-------

COVID-19 Tests:
* 13 negative tests
  * 2 back today
* 3 pending tests

Lifting island restrictions after another week:
* Depends on what's happening world wide. If it's still a problem globally we
  probably won't be able to get back to normal soon.

What happened to people quarantined:
* Kept in their homes
* Keeping an eye on those whos tests came back negative.

Groceries etc
---------------

Pickup of Groceries at Bojangles:
* Acceptable for those outside the delivery radius
* Take something to show you're picking up groceries

Water:
* Available from the gas stations which are open, please use those
* There's one right near the airport for those who need water there.

Banks closed:
* Looking at banks. That's why we have the poll about supermarkets and banks so
  effort can be focussed. 

Flights
-------

590 people left today on 3 flights!

Canadian Flights:
* 2 Air Transat flights, one to Toronto and one to Montreal

European flights:
* Czech Republic flight organised
* Spain: Boat to mainland and then charter flight. Being organised by embassy
* Get on a United flight connecting to Europe if possible

USA Flights:
* United:
  * 9 daily flights starting today
  * 179 seats filled today, 20 people on standby
  * Thanks for those who were on standby, so that we guarantee there are no
    empty seats
* Delta and American:
  * These flights are cancelled
  * Get on United flights
* Non US citizens:
  * Fine to fly on US flights for the most part
  * Only person so far who's been canceled was a lady from the UK because her
    ongoing flight was cancelled and flight policies wouldn't allow her to go
    to Houston without and ongoing flight.
  * As an example, Turkish national is leaving on the 28th without issues

Cancelling flights
* If you have left, cancel any other flights you booked to open up seats
* There are lot of seats being opened up due to cancelations so keep checking
  regularly if you don't have a seat yet.

Islanders (Hondurans and residents) returning:
* Still not permitted
  * May take legal action against the organisation that's spreading the rumors
    as it's causing a lot of pain
* San Pedro may be letting some people in
* Bay Islands only has the capacity to have 100 people in quarantine
  * If let people in from countries with COVID-19 then they automatically have
    to be quarantined. The Bay Islands simply doesn't have the capacity to
    receive people right now.
* Flights coming in are empty, no matter what people in the call center say.

Visa overstay:
* Can't file late fees as banks are closed.
  * Governors team is working on getting banks open.
* Wait until the banks are open and then you can get out of here.
* Yes, it's true, if you can't pay before you leave you're here indefinitely

Ferry from Utila?
* Authorised to the airport as it's contained and can see the flow of people in
  and out.
* If it's a large amount of people, maybe can do something special

Getting from to Roatan from other islands
* Only authorised to head to Roatan on the same day as your flight
  * Put your flight details on the WhatsApp chat and you'll get some assistance
    with booking a charter.
* Flights from Ceiba being organised from Jean Philippe for connections

General
-------

Volunteering:
* Will setup a volunteer list shortly

Transmissions:
* Maxcomm installed a fiber link which makes it easier to talk. Thanks to them.
* Working on getting a better computer

Gas stations:
* Open again
* Please do not use this to take unnecessary car trips (no joy riding)
* Thanks to Bay Island Petrolium And Petrosun for waiting until authorisation
  * Both are open now
* Were open today until 18:00
* [Strict
  rules](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/posts/548064475836899) for
  future days

Mayors Office Roatan
* Program to provide support to islanders who are effected by dead tourism and
  get food on peoples tables 
* Program that needs to be enlisted in. Nothing in the first few days as
  organisation needs to be done.
* Check the [Mayors Office Facebook page](https://www.facebook.com/TheNewRoatan)

Language
* Spanish is primary language so it's first
* We speak as many as possible, for example will need to work out Czech soon as
  we have a lot of visitors from there (3rd largest population on islands).

Suspicious boat activity
* Please report to [governors facebook
  page](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas)
* [Congressman Ron](https://www.facebook.com/RonMcnabIB) has a team working on
  boats, can contact him as well

Donating to the Bay Islands:
* Best not to do via financial aid, better as donations of necessities.
* Will setup a list of necessary material
* Talk to [Hyde shipping](https://www.hydeshipping.com/) as they come direct to
  Roatan

Leaving Roatan on personal boats
* Go to marine merchant office to see what's needed to get out of Roatan
  * Be aware that many countries won't take you right now.
  * Make sure you have a good boat plan before leaving

Visitors staying on the islands?
* Happy for people to stay. For those with visas in May, hoping that we'll be
  able to return to some normalicy before then so you shouldn't need to worry
  about visa issues.
* Supermarkets are fully stocked and continue to do deliveries
* Personal opinion, that's your call. US looks scary, Canada doesn't look bad.
* Most of our volunteers are expats
* Your own financial choice too
* Bay Islands don't have a problem with visitors staying
* Think about: financial and if you're scared.
* For those leaving:
  * Priority was to get people who were short/medium term visitors off the
    islands
  * Not trying to help people who just got scared and are trying to go home
* Many expats are staying

Curfew double standards:
* Please report people doing activity which isn't permitted under the curfew,
  it may be unauthorised and we'll shut it down if we can.

Residency documents
* Go early to immigration, tell security you're meeting with the immigration
  officer and show your passport
* Immigration is the authority on what to do for document deadlines

Tropic Consolidators permitted to deliver packages
* Will look into it
