---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-04-02"
date: 2020-04-02T15:50:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-04-02 15:50"
tags: [
  "airlines",
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "donations",
  "facebook-live",
  "local-business",
  "segmented-circulation",
  "testing",
  "travel",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-04-02
15:50](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/523956691584169)

Videos are now split between [Spanish](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/2267952660177953) and English. This only covers the English video.

Note that it's been re-ordered and some repetition collapsed.

Donations
---------

Thank you to those who have donated food to volunteers.

Hospital equipment donation has arrived. 

Microsoft and Google do dollar for dollar matching of donations.
Chevron does 2 for 1. Pepsi also does some matching.

A list of donors has been added to: https://themakeitcountfoundation.org/

Curfew
------

Traveling when it's not your day to go to supermarkets:
* If you don't have a car, you need to go to the supermarket on your day. The
  drivers day is not important as long as they don't go in.
* Taxis can take you to the supermarket too

Delivery:
* New press release yesterday shut down delivery
* Federal government is analyzing what's required for the biosecurity of
  deliveries. Expect this will be sorted out in a day or two.

COVID-19
-------

Testing:
* 23 negative, 2 being checked.

Buzz about Honduras not having PPE:
* Things are looking ok in the Bay Islands, we have stocks. Asking mainland for
  more just to be safe and ensure there's plenty for healthcare workers.

Local creation of home made ventilators:
* If this works, we'll be able to build ventilators locally.
* He's publishing his designs and working 

As part of the preparation the team is running scenarios for the case when the
Bay Islands gets COVID-19

If sick on Utila:
* Will need to go to mainland, Roatan doesn't have the ability to deal with
  COVID-19
* For non-COVID-19, it'd be case specific

Travel
------

Sailboat tried to enter last night:
* Sailboat was forced to leave
* Please be careful when intercepting boats
* Sailboat was from Colombia, this is normal in the Caribbean

European flight today from SPS to Europe on Condor airlines.

CM Flights:
* Coming into Roatan empty
* Airport is open and running flights

Getting to mainland:
* Best way is to fly, attempts to use boats have not been successful

General
-------

COVID-19 Response Team:
* Highlighting Trish Simmons today.

Orthopedic doctors:
* Director of the hospital knows about this
* If they have to leave the island they'll need to stay out

Patrolling Utila waters:
* Talk to Junior Williams
