---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-09-25"
date: 2020-09-25T07:30:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-09-25 07:30"
tags: [
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "facebook-live",
  "hospital",
  "reopening",
  "testing",
  "tourism",
  "travel",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-09-25
07:30](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/363230955039273/)

Starts at 02:00

The Spanish transmission can be found
[here](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/337413221008362/)

Transmissions are Monday and Friday.

COVID-19 Testing and Treatment
------------------------------

Cases:
* Health Department release 80 from Thursday
  * 1,315 confirmed cases total
    * 90 new cases
    * 151 recovered
    * 17 deaths confirmed
    * 1,147 active cases
* 175 currently outstanding tests
  * Started with 175 pending tests before the press release
  * 105 processed
  * 105 new kits sent for testing

Hospitalisation:
* Total of 58 hospitalised patients in Roatan
  * 18 in the hospital
  * 40 in the COVID center
* Peak was 67 hospitalised, so things look to be improving
* No information for Guanaja or Utila
* Does not include private hospital numbers as these have not been supplied to
  the governor

Triage centers:
* 3 new triage centers up and running on Roatan
  * Coxen Hole, in the community of Willy Warren. It's in the Santos Guardiola
    institute. For the people of:
    * Flowers Bay
    * Coxen Hole
    * French Harbour
    * Los Fuertes
  * Sandy Bay, at the Modelo school. For the people of:
    * Sandy Bay
    * West End
    * West Bay
    * North Side, including: Crawfish Rock, Corozal, Hottest Sparrow, Mud Hole
  * Oakridge, in the Marco Releo school, close the mayors office of Santos
    Guardiola
* Another is being setup in Guanaja
* These are places for people to get tested and evaluated by a doctor. The sick
  can then be referred to the COVID-19 center. They also have oxygen so they
  can stabilise people if necessary.
* Aim is to provide better attention and shorter lines. It also allows the
  hospital to focus on those who need hospitalisation.

Pocket PCR:
* Ran out of reactive, are currently in the process of purchasing more
* Machine is still on Roatan and will be used once the supplies arrive

Travel and Immigration
----------------------

United Airlines:
* Not yet flying to Roatan
* No dates yet on when they'll start again

Air Transat:
* Flights are being cancelled and pushed back into December
* Airlines are saying that the two week quarantine required by Canada on return
  is their main concern
  * There is some talk about this changing in early October

Other airlines:
* Scheduling flights to Roatan is up to the airlines

Travel to Utila:
* Having a negative COVID-19 test to present is the only requirement

General
-------

Movement:
* 2 digit system is in effect until at least next Sunday

Visit of the president:
* This was to roll out the new triage centers

The broken ambulance has been repaired by RECO

Oxygen tanks:
* 200 provided by central government
* 4 volunteers moving oxygen tanks to the cargo boats for refills
  * Please contact the governor if you'd like to assist
* Government vehicles are busy moving people to the hospital and COVID-19
  center, so volunteers to help move tanks are appreciated.
