---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-04-20"
date: 2020-04-20T21:00:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-04-20 21:00"
tags: [
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "donations",
  "facebook-live",
  "quarantine-breech",
  "returning-islanders",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-04-20
21:00](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/2590112141243927)

The is a transcript of the English transmission. There is also a [Spanish
transmission](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/308496420117384)
which I do not translate.

Note that it's been re-ordered and some repetition collapsed.

Delayed due to meetings and catch up from the weekend

Donations
---------

Matching Donation:
* Reminder that anything donated to the foundation will be doubled as of
  Friday. Every donation is needed, no matter how small.

Fundraising:
* Current total (excluding the amount pledged for matching):
  USD 203,535; HNL 5,050,497
  * USD 35,175 USD still available as matching funds
* https://themakeitcountfoundation.org/
* Donate to the foundation you're most comfortable with, there are many (for
  example the Sol International).

Utila fundraising:
* http://www.SupportUtila.org
* If you are on Utila in need of food, Tylenol or Aspirin, please send a
  message to @SupportUtila on Facebook

COVID-19
--------

Testing:
* 32 samples taken and all negative
* Still working on getting testing onto the islands

Quarantine Breach in Utila:
* This person hasn't been tested yet

Equipment:
* Looking for a thermo cycler to do accurate tests
* Also looking to get rapid testing
* General goal to have all testing on the islands so we can turn them around as
  quickly as possible
* Looking to get kits from the Cayman Islands, waiting on an answer from them

Travel
--------

Flights in May on United Airlines:
* Looks like flights for end of May will be running, but this may change.

Visas:
* As soon as the crisis is over and immigration opens you'll be able to sort
  out any immigration issues

General
-------

Fuel Boat on Sunday:
* Lack of communications with the port in Roatan
* Had some crew members who are islanders and wanted to get off the boat
* A group got together to stop the boat landing
* Were able to authorise the boat to unload fuel today
* Boat was searched by a doctor and two firemen to ensure no passengers aboard
* Ensured that no one got off the boat

Transport:
* Announced on Thursday that 25% of taxis would be able to run. Unfortunately
  this was a miscommunication with the mainland and they can not run.
* Had a two hour meeting today to discuss how to help transportation people
* Provided food coupons for people who had paid taxes and food bags for those
  who had not

Santos Guardiola:
* Gear for the firemen donated by Rotary in Alberta

Informative articles:
* Feel free to send useful information via the Gobernacion Facebook page

Protests and shopping:
* If it was your day today and you couldn't shop due to the protests, you can
  go tomorrow

Captain who broke quarantine:
* This person is in quarantine now.

Restaurant delivery:
* Not yet, should be soon
