---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-07-22"
date: 2020-07-22T18:30:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-07-22 18:30"
tags: [
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "crime",
  "facebook-live",
  "quarantine",
  "reopening",
  "transport",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-07-22
18:30](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/595864044355546)

Starts at 03:00.

The Spanish transmission can be found
[here](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/308128603644941/)

Switching calls to Monday and Friday at 08:00 as the Governor is currently not
able to dedicate more regular updates and does not wish to regularly be late as
today's was.

COVID-19 Testing and Treatment
------------------------------

Cases:
* Using press release 146 from Monday evening, will provide updated numbers
  on Friday once the concerns about double counting are addressed.
* 24 cases last night apparently includes some double counting.
  * Double counting is particularly likely among those who are repetitively
    tested, such as medical personnel
* 144 confirmed cases
  * 31 recovered
  * 1 deceased
  * 112 still active cases (moving to recovered is limited by the availability
    of PCR kits)
    * All of these people are still in quarantine

Donation of PPE:
* 18,600 KN95 masks, 25,000 surgical masks, 185 VPAP machines and more
  ventilator conversion kits for the machines
* Arrived on Monday, picked up Tuesday
  * Currently getting things cleared through customs
* Came from a hospital in the USA which had a surplus of donations
* Has arrived on Roatan, will be divided between the islands and there will be
  further communication about this as the items are shipped out.
* 163 boxes of PPE which needed to be transported. Concerned that it would take
  2 months by ship.
  * Oversight foundation reached out to Mr Warren who volunteered his personal
    plane, it was too much so he volunteered a company plane, to fly the
    equipment down.
* Equipment is being split up so that each island gets some. Will announce how
  much each island is getting soon.
  * Once each municipality approves a date to do the delivery, they will come
    over and hand over the equipment. It's important to the governor that they
    deliver it personally.
* Community outreach programs will also be involved with education around the
  equipment in the donations as well.

Police testing:
* The 10 cases that were positive are from the first group, they are still in
  quarantine.
* The second group recently arrived and is in quarantine
* Still at 150 police, when there should be at least 250 on Roatan.
* Trying their best to get more police onto the island, but many of them have
  positive COVID-19 tests.

PCR machines for the islands:
* Still working on this.

Confirmed cases on Utila:
* There will be an update on Friday

Training doctors on VPAP:
* Great idea, McCarry will help make a video for this.

Travel and Immigration
----------------------

Airport inspection:
* 4 inspectors arrived today to inspect Roatan airport
* Working closely with congressman, mayor and ministers to get the airport back
  online
* Can't give a date, will have a better idea once the inspection is finished
* The inspection is scheduled to be done by Friday, so should have a better
  update on Monday.
* Room and board has been donated to cover their expenses during the inspection

When will the islands reopen:
* Not sure yet
* This has to be done in collaboration with the central government
* Reopening requires central government approval, this is done in collaboration
  with local government

Flying internationally:
* Can only leave Honduras from TGU or SAP at this time
* If you are a Honduran passport holder, you need to get permission to leave.
  * Message the governor if you need permission

Quarantine requirements:
* Need to ask local authorities, each municipality is doing something different

Travel to the mainland for international flights:
* Organise a charter

General
-------

Community outreach program:
* Many communities are making their own videos.
  * Easier to hear from someone you do know rather than someone you don't
* Will upload them to the governors page

Doctor calls:
* Doctors in Honduras are doing regular video calls with specialists in the USA
* Information is aimed at medical workers, but the governor is going to upload
  the videos to his page
* First one was Monday, next is Friday.
* If you're a medical worker and want to be in these calls, contact the
  governor to be included.

Crime:
* Unfortunately, this is an expected side effect due to the judicial system and
  economy.
* Working on improving the judicial system, there were meetings this week which
  seem to have had a positive impact.
* Criminals have been being sent to the mainland

Power:
* Electricity is expensive, especially in places that are small. This is true
  across the entire Caribbean.
* RECO has dropped prices (unmentioned, so has UPCO) since the start of the
  pandemic

Tax relief:
* The tax you should be paying is for 2019's income tax.
* Governor will look into relief options.
* The governor will also look into what the requirements are for prepaying 2020
  taxes
