---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-05-05"
date: 2020-05-05T09:30:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-05-05 09:30"
tags: [
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "covid-19",
  "facebook-live",
  "local-business",
  "protest",
  "reopening",
  "returning-islanders",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-05-05
09:30](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/237737794110986)
(starts at 02:30).

This is a transcript of the English transmission. There is also a [Spanish
transmission](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/1099323527097856)
which I do not translate.

Travel
--------

Quarantine Breech:
* Found another person smuggled into the islands.
* They are in custody and will be sent back to the mainland.
* Currently researching to find the people that brought them in.
  * Will take away their boat license and take their boat

Recommendations for returning people to the bay islands:
* Requiring having the correct PPE and testing equipment/procedures
* Can't bring people back until we have both of those

General
-------

Protests:
* Started at 06:00 Monday as a peaceful protest.
* Someone blocked the entrance to the mayors office, which caused a panic as
  people were stuck inside the building (which is 30 years old and not in great
  shape, it also only has a single entrance/exit)
* Police had to clear the area to let people out, they used their standard
  procedure which is to deploy tear gas.
* The governor met with protesters at 10:00 today
* Some charges pressed against protesters due to the building blockage. 

Presidential video:
* Looking to open the Bay Islands up this week.
* Lots of work by a lot of people to push for this.
* This will include specifications on how to safely open businesses.

Local business vs reintroduction:
* This is a key dilemma as we can safely do one or the other.

Opening up locally:
* There will be requirements for opening up locally
* Not yet sure if there will be 
* Roatan mayor has asked for exceptions for large construction projects which
  will hire a lot of people. These have been approved.

Bringing body of a child who died on the mainland back:
* Will need to be cremated
* Difficult problem, governor asked for a private message
* Most people on the video supported opening local business as a priority

Stimulus for tourism companies:
* Will wait until official announcement, but there is news
