---
title: "Governor Silvestri 2020-06-08"
date: 2020-06-08T08:30:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-06-08 08:30"
tags: [
  "airlines",
  "bay-islands",
  "bay-islands-governor",
  "biosecurity",
  "covid-19",
  "facebook-live",
  "medical",
  "medication",
  "reopening",
  "returning-islanders",
  "travel",
  "utila",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Governor Silvestri at 2020-06-08
08:30](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/188196305823461)

Starts at 03:00

The Spanish transmission can be found [here](https://www.facebook.com/gobernacionislas/videos/251556439470016/)

COVID-19 Testing and Treatment
------------------------------

COVID-19 Testing:
* 12 people positive, 10 in Roatan, 2 in Santos Guardiola
  * 2 people have symptoms
  * 10 are asymptomatic
* 30 Rapid tests came back positive, only 12 of which were actually positive
  once PCR testing was done.
* No current pending tests.
* Two ways people get tested:
  1. Having symptoms
  2. Coming into contact with someone who tested positive
* Everyone who has tested positive has been quarantined
  * Contact tracing is being done for all these people
* Even the negative rapid tests are being sent for PCR testing
* Some healthcare workers have been tested and positive cases are in quarantine

Biosecurity:
* Wear masks outside
* Use hand sanitiser when entering a store
* Use glasses or goggles if you have them
* Stay home if you have an underlying condition that makes you more susceptible
  * Ask people without masks to wear them
* Roatan has been giving out lots of masks
* Utila and Guanaja are COVID-19 free right now and there is a project to get
  both islands masks shortly.
* Hotline: +504-8820-2444
  * If you have symptoms
  * If you need to report something
* If you have the financial means to buy MAIZ then do so. Some pharmacies
  require a prescription, others do not.

New cases:
* Combination of people returning (both legally and illegally) and internal
  transmission

Process for treatment on Guanaja and Utila:
* Travel to Roatan as this is the center for the Bay Islands

PCR Testing:
* Been looking at getting machines since March, no luck getting equipment yet.
  Still working on it.
* Have been using private testing facilities to get tests run and the costs
  have been covered by the mayors office

Travel and Immigration
----------------------

United changing dates of flights:
* No authorisation for international travel to Roatan yet.

Residency renewals:
* You can go and get this fixed at any time, no need to worry about the number
  system. Immigration issues are classified as an emergency for travel reasons.

Visa expiry in other Bay Islands:
* Will need to go to Roatan once the office is open
* The immigration office is not yet open every day, currently only open in
  Tegucigalpa

Returning people to islands:
* La Ceiba is where people are being returned to the islands from.
* Make sure that the quarantine agreement is signed in order to get on the list

Ferries:
* They should run from the 15th of July

Getting people home from Abidjan:
* Needs to come to Central America first, then we can try to get them back to
  the Bay Islands.

General
-------

Reopening:
* 07:00 - 17:00 using the number system
* Numbering system, today (Monday) is 6
* All business except bars, discotheques, etc can be open
* Sat and Sun are still shutdown
* Roatan: 40% of work force (region 2)
* Guanaja, Santos Guardiola and Utila are 60% of workforce (region 1)

Why switch back to Mon-Fri:
* This is the national system and once cases arrived in the Bay Islands we had
  to switch to it.
* 7 days a week was a local exception while we didn't have COVID-19

Charging people not wearing a mask:
* This is not currently feasible

Money from central government:
* Have received medication, PPE, food not cash
* Expecting that help from the central government will change now that there
  are positive cases in the Bay Islands
