---
title: "Utila Municipality 2020-09-09"
date: 2020-09-09T18:00:00-07:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat For Utila Municipality at 2020-09-09 18:00"
tags: [
  "facebook-live",
  "ferry",
  "medical",
  "travel",
  "utila",
  "utila-mayor",
]
---

NB: The audio is very difficult to make out, there's a lot of background noise
and the video stalls quite a bit (which cuts out entire sections).

Update from municipality leaders:
[Video](https://www.facebook.com/328195770717532/videos/246672846568036/)

Mixed Spanish and English. English 3:30-18:00, 21:00-23:30, 27:56-31:20,
33:00-40:45, 43:30-45:10, 55:30-end

I've grouped discussion to try to provide some clarity and structure.

Reopening
---------

The municipality is not able to force people to do a rapid test to enter the
island. Roatan has also fought for this and central government isn't permitting
it for them either. In order to provide some protection, people will be asked
if they have signs or symptoms of COVID-19 when they enter the island.

There has been work to try and protect the island via municipal ordinances.
These ordinances planned to open the island to tourists on 2020-10-01.
Unfortunately, they have been overridden by Tegucigalpa. The navy police (the
highest police authority on the island) were ordered to take control of the
dock and remove anyone (including municipal police) who attempts to block the
dock.

All businesses bringing people over to work are required to provide a police
record and a job letter detailing where the person will be working.

The ferry can carry 35% of their normal passenger load, which means up to 100
people per trip coming to Utila.

Travelling Off Island
---------------------

If you want to go to La Ceiba and return, you can. The requirements are that
you have a ticket and are wearing a mask.

The municipality asks that everyone doing so also take a rapid test before
coming back in order to limit the spread.

COVID-19 Spread
---------------

The Keys is where most of the cases are appearing. One patient is currently
recovering but there have been several deaths.

Utila is currently doing relatively well on COVID-19 infections, one of the
lowest per capita rates in the world. However, now that the borders are open,
it's going to be hard to control. The doctors are doing their best, but they're
working long shifts and there aren't very many of them.

Every place that has reopened, there's a new wave of COVID-19 cases. Utila is
also still not yet at the peak from the first wave.

It is now even more important to wear masks properly, keep 2 meters distance
and avoid social gatherings.

Concerns
--------

There is a concern that the ferry will bring people over who are looking for
work, who do not have the money to look after themselves and this will be an
extra load on the island when they get sick or need food.

The lack of work for migrant workers is why the original aim was to just open
up to residents. A lot of work has been done lately removing criminals, over 40
removed in the last few months, so the island is a lot safer. This may be
undone due to the limits of the municipalities authority to limit people
entering Utila.

A concern was expressed about the message that not requiring a rapid test
sends. There is some worry that tourists will come and see the lack of a rapid
test as an indicator that they don't have to follow biosecurity measures. This
would be dangerous for them and for the community.

Given that doctors are already working around the clock and there is no
hospital, there is a lot of concern that reopening will create a spike in cases
that is difficult for Utila to manage.

As people are coming in, we have to be much more careful. Everyone needs to
wear masks and avoid social gatherings.
