---
title: "Utila Municipality 2020-03-20"
date: 2020-03-21T09:39:15-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat For Utila Municipality at 2020-03-20 15:53"
tags: [
    "curfew",
    "facebook-live",
    "food",
    "testing",
    "utila",
    "utila-mayor",
]
---

Summary of [Facebook Live Chat by Troy Bodden Sr. at 2020-03-20 15:53](https://www.facebook.com/hq.tvministries/videos/2660159994093475)

Two new cases of COVID-19 have been tested. However, due to issues with
transport the tests are still on the island. Trying to get transport organised
to get them out for testing.

There was an emergency meeting on Thursday evening which came up with the
following:
* Putting in place an order to stay at home 24/7.
  * Please stay off the roads, streets and beaches.
  * Having private parties at homes is irresonsible. Please do not do this as
    it puts everyone in jeopardy.
* Only the following will be open and only between 10:00 - 13:00. Please do not
  go out unless you have business at one of these:
  * Supermarkets
  * Pharmacies
  * Clinics
  * Gasoline stations
  * Electric company
  * Purified water companies

Trying to save lives, it's a difficult situation and it needs us to come
together as a community. Please stay at home.

3 emergencies being dealt with:
* Serious accident on the beach. Reiterate, please stay at home.
* Pregnant lady with twins (needs surgery, no hospital on Utila)
* Another pregnant lady needs access to a hospital

Getting medication is taking a lot longer. What used to be one call is now a
day and a half project. People in Cortez have been helping us out to get
medicines onto the boats.

Transport off the island is heavily limited:
* Trying to get plane from SAP to RTB and UII so we can evacuate important
  patients to La Ceiba.
* Limited access off the island, to the point where we have 2 COVID-19 testing
  kits still waiting on the island.
* Airforce won't even send planes. There's collaboration between the islands to
  handle logistics.
* Lots of work being done to improve logistics and ensure that people and
  things that need to be moved are.
