---
title: "Utila Municipality 2020-07-17"
date: 2020-07-17T16:00:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat For Utila Municipality at 2020-07-17 16:00"
tags: [
  "cargo-boats",
  "covid-19",
  "curfew",
  "doctors",
  "facebook-live",
  "local-business",
  "medical",
  "quarantine",
  "testing",
  "transport",
  "treatment",
  "triage-center",
  "utila",
  "utila-mayor",
]
---

[Video](https://www.facebook.com/328195770717532/videos/939586869880940)
Spanish and English intermixed. English at 03:15-06:30, 07:30-07:50,
08:00-08:00, 09:00-09:15, 10:30-12:50 (heavily intermixed), 13:45-14:10,
15:40-16:15, 16:35-17:45, 18:05-18:45 (heavily intermixed), 19:00-20:00,
20:25-21:00, 21:20-end

COVID-19 Cases:
* 8 people tested positive with rapid tests
  * 6 are completing isolation
  * 2 are under observation at the Lance Bodden clinic
    * 1 is a mild case, he doesn't need supplementary oxygen. He has passed the
      critical phase of the infection.
    * 1 is a severe case and is using supplementary oxygen
    * Neither of these people had contact with the people on the cargo boat.
      This means that the disease is spread among the community and you don't
      have to have come in contact with the people on the cargo boat to be
      potentially infected.
* Cargo boat crew:
  * 4 of the boat crew have PCR positive results
  * This means anyone who can contact with them and has a positive rapid test
    is highly likely to be infected (i.e. not a false positive).
  * SINAGER will report these people as Atlántida cases, as they live in La
    Ceiba, but people on Utila have still been exposed

Biosecurity:
* It is critically important for everyone to follow biosecurity measures to
  limit the spread of the virus on Utila.
  * Not following biosecurity measures puts your family, friends and the whole
    island at risk. Please take it **very** seriously and help our community
    stay safe.
* Don't go outside unless you have to
* Keep 2 meters apart
* Wear masks when not at home, they are most effective when **everyone** is
  wearing them.

Curfew:
* Free to move 07:00 - 19:00
* Curfew 19:00 - 07:00
* Team sports and church are forbidden as they both spread the virus too easily

Getting patients off the island:
* Only 1 boat and 1 plane are willing to take COVID-19 patients off the island

Police:
* 2 left Friday morning, 3 are currently in quarantine on Water Key

Repatriation:
* 7 people returned on Tuesday and are currently doing quarantine

Business:
* There have been questions from the business community about how to follow
  biosecurity measures.
* Doctors are planning on holding a Zoom meeting to address business questions

Garbage Dump:
* Thank you to everyone who helped fight the fire the other night
* The municipality is close to moving the dump to a new area, it was delayed by
  the pandemic
* On Thursday the deal to put the new site down Jerico Rd was finalised

Medical equipment and PPE:
* More medical equipment and PPE has been ordered for doctors

COVID-19 treatment center:
* Updates to Alton's school to convert it to a clinic are being finished today
* Expect to move the patients from the Bodden clinic to the treatment center on
  Saturday or Sunday

Thank you to everyone for being patient and understanding the situation. There
is a lot being learned daily.
