---
title: "Utila Municipality 2020-07-10"
date: 2020-07-10T15:30:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat For Utila Municipality at 2020-07-10 15:30"
tags: [
  "covid-19",
  "facebook-live",
  "medical",
  "quarantine",
  "treatment",
  "triage-center",
  "utila",
  "utila-mayor",
]
---

[Video](https://www.facebook.com/328195770717532/videos/959836427794169/?v=959836427794169).
Spanish and English intermixed. English at 00:00-02:05, 05:00-09:10

4 new positive cases from rapid tests
* 1 person is showing symptoms
* They live in the following areas:
  * 2 people from Camponado
  * 1 person from Campolacho
  * 1 person from Cross Creek

PCR tests
* 14 tests sent yesterday
* Sent off test kits for these 4 today

Joe Miller tested negative

Reminder that business opening is restricted. Only the following are permitted
to be open:
* Supermarkets
* Grocery stores
* Bank
* Pharmacies
* Petrol stations
* UPCO
* Water companies
* Hardware stores

It's **critically important** that everyone **wear a mask** when not at home.

More medication has arrived.
* MAIZ kits
* Other medication that the doctors have ordered
* More medication and test kits have been ordered

Bringing Utilians back
* Law is that if you're not a resident you're not allowed to travel to Honduras
* Residents are permitted back onto the island and will be helped back

Lots of rumors on Facebook. Request to focus on what's going well not what's
going poorly and shut down rumors.

On of the bathrooms in the treatment center has had the tiling finished.
* 10 beds in the COVID-19 center
* People who are too sick will not be kept on the island, there are hospitals
  in San Pedro Sula to take care of Bay Islanders.
  * Working on protocol for getting people to San Pedro Sula, either boat to La
    Ceiba or flight straight to SAP.

Looking into updates using Zoom.
