---
title: "Utila Municipality 2020-08-31"
date: 2020-08-31T18:00:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat For Utila Municipality at 2020-08-31 18:00"
tags: [
  "facebook-live",
  "medical",
  "reopening",
  "travel",
  "utila",
  "utila-mayor",
  "volunteers",
]
---

Update from Mayor Bodden:
[Video](https://www.facebook.com/328195770717532/videos/661558301385601/)

Entire video is English. Spanish will be posted in a separate video, but as of
this writing it hasn't been published.

The municipality is working with the minister of tourism on reopening the
island. They're expecting her to send some staff over to assist with planning.

For reopening they're also working with the previously mentioned new rules and
guidelines. There's a desire to start up much better than how the island was
operating before.

There will be another meeting in the next week or so to see how people are
feeling about reopening businesses.

Today the corporation had a meeting and decided to let all residents return
with just a rapid test. So no need to do a PCR to come home as of 2020-09-01.

Rapid tests can be acquired in La Ceiba or San Pedro Sula. If you're arriving
internationally and coming across the same day or next day, the test you took
to arrive in Honduras is still valid. It's valid for 72 hours (he said 62, but
this is probably a mistake as all others rules are 72 hours). The change is
because the PCR test is expensive and can be difficult to get.

The ferry got an inspection and OK from SINAGER.
* They are now safe to open business.
* There has been no discussion between the ferry and the municipality as to
  when the ferry will start operating.
* The municipality has the final say in when and how this will happen. This is
  waiting on the new immigration rules the municipality is putting in place to
  be finalised, which is expected to happen this week.
* As an example of a change: hiring people will require a job letter showing
  that they have a job and require presenting police records.
  * There have been a lot of problems in the past and the goal is to try and
    prevent them in the future (or at least slow the problems down).
  * On Saturday, 5 thieves were taken off the island
  * Private boats will be similarly regulated

There is going to be a porch along the main road going to the dock and the
construction for this is going well. The aim is to cover the cement with wood
as well to make a much more presentable entrance to the island.

Medical:
* There are now two extra doctors on the island.
* Oxygen is being moved regularly onto the island.
* CB (a tech diver) voluntarily went to the mainland to get oxygen for the
  island and not only transported it for free, but paid for it too.
* There's been another large donation of COVID-19 medicine

Volunteers are also handing out food and spraying for mosquitoes. This has been
a huge help.
