---
title: "Utila Municipality 2020-08-05"
date: 2020-08-05T10:30:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat For Utila Municipality at 2020-08-05 10:30"
tags: [
  "clinic",
  "covid-19",
  "donations",
  "facebook-live",
  "medical",
  "quarantine",
  "utila",
  "utila-mayor",
]
---

[Video](https://www.facebook.com/328195770717532/videos/1587993934712415/)
English 00:00-13:00, Spanish 13:00-end

Meeting with doctors, are reinforcing the medical team a bit more and getting
in more medical equipment, including an X ray machine.

Tour of clinic (centro de salud) modifications:
* An addition has been added to the side of the clinic to with an emergency
  area and a waiting area.
* 5 rooms are being newly built in an adjacent building
  * Each room will have 2 hospital beds, with oxygen, IV and monitoring
  * 4 rooms will be built on top
  * Bottom concrete construction, top wood construction
* Areas between the two buildings will be covered
* Vice mayor has gotten a donation of 4 air conditioners for use in the
  building
* Concept is for the facility to act as a miniature hospital
* Expect to lay the floor for the second story in 10 days
* Will be able to use the first floor while the top floor is being built out

Trying to find a doctor to come in who can take and read X rays so that
Utilians don't need to go to La Ceiba to get them.

Almost 400 people were taken off the island during the pandemic, lots of
lessons learned from this. The municipality is working on rules for reopening,
as well as some other organisational improvements which include the lessons
learned. Once the draft has been drawn up the new rules will be presented to
the island for comment.

The clinic on the Keys was replaced.
* It has been completely rebuilt.
* Doctors used to travel on Thursdays to the Keys from the main clinic
* There is now a doctor at the facility on the Keys 24/7

Triage still operating during the construction for updating the clinic
* Doctors request that anyone with respiratory (breathing) issues goes to the
  triage center next to the municipality office for evaluation.
* If the doctors decide it's not COVID-19 related, patients will be transferred
  to the centro de salud clinic
* If it is COVID-19 related, patients will be transferred to centro de copio
  (Alton's school)

Medical staff have been working long hours during the pandemic and deserve our
thanks.

Video by Shelby.

There should be another video on Thursday, reviewing the inside of the clinic.
