---
title: "Utila Municipality 2020-08-16"
date: 2020-08-16T11:50:00-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat For Utila Municipality at 2020-08-16 11:50"
tags: [
  "crime",
  "facebook-live",
  "law",
  "utila",
  "utila-mayor",
]
---

3 videos in close proximity, so this post summarises them together

[Video](https://www.facebook.com/328195770717532/videos/913871289109812/)
English: 00:00 - 09:50

Mayor Troy

Vandalism on the bridge and municipality building early Sunday morning
* Police were out until 03:00, so expect it was done between 03:00 and 04:00.
* If you have video footage or other information, please send it to the
  municipality.
* Concern over the mentality of unrest from the mainland making its way to
  Utila.
* HNL 25,000 / USD 1,000 reward for identifying the vandals.

There has been an effort to remove criminals from Utila during the pandemic
* Have removed about 350 people from the island
  * Found 50 minors without papers in the process
  * Includes 14 year olds brought over for prostitution and 2 girls with fake
    Utilian birth paperwork.
  * Lots of thieves and drug members removed
  * Over 50 of the people removed have a permanent ban from Utila

New rules have been drawn up and will be circulated soon
* Should be published tomorrow for comment
* New laws based on what's available legally for municipalities
* Took a month to write up
* Ferry will have restrictions on who it can bring to Utila to put some limits
  on criminal enterprise.

Looking at the pandemic as an opportunity to clean things up and restart the
island with a clean slate.

---

[Video](https://www.facebook.com/328195770717532/videos/1246505572353644/)
English: 00:00 - 03:00

Vice Mayor Alice

Concern that the vandalism damages Utilas reputation, security and the unity
Utila is known for in hard times.

Sad to see political tactics being used to disrupt the community during the
pandemic.

Utila has been fortunate in that many of the cases have been able to recuperate.

Decision to postpone reopening:
* Aim is to save lives
* Utila has no hospitals, less equipment and many fewer medical staff than most
* There are limited transport to evacuate COVID-19 cases
* Last night 2 people were evacuated by aircraft
* Have patients with high levels of saturation needing 4 large tanks of oxygen
  in less than 2 days.
  * Getting 50 or 100 cases would be devastating
  * There's no way to obtain the oxygen let alone the medical personnel if
    COVID-19 spreads widely
* No time to celebrate carnival, it's time to unify efforts

Financial insights:
* There's a platform of transparency available at the municipality
  * Every municipality around the country has this
* Details all transactions made by the municipality

---

[Video](https://www.facebook.com/328195770717532/videos/1436944486516303/)
English: 00:00 - 03:00

Video shows vandalism of municipality building

Is otherwise a repeat of the previous video at a different angle.
