---
title: "Utila Municipality 2020-05-18"
date: 2020-05-18T12:36:15-06:00
draft: false
description: "Summary of the Facebook Live Chat For Utila Municipality at 2020-05-18 12:00"
tags: [
  "alcohol",
  "biosecurity",
  "covid-19",
  "curfew",
  "facebook-live",
  "reopening",
  "restaurant",
  "returning-islanders",
  "utila",
  "utila-mayor",
]
---

Summary of [council meeting at 2020-05-18 12:00](https://www.facebook.com/328195770717532/videos/920602075031635/) and discussion of [municipal projects](https://www.facebook.com/328195770717532/videos/1160484530972150/)

Thanks to everyone for staying home during the quarantine, this helped with
ensuring we remain COVID-19 free.

Request to read and obey the [rules for local
commerce](https://www.facebook.com/permalink.php?story_fbid=1292449427625490&id=328195770717532),
it's a two week trial and may not be renewed if the island doesn't follow the
rules.

There is a meeting at Officina La Mujer at 15:00 today to go over the
biosecurity measures with restaurants. If you own or operate a restaurant,
please do to this meeting.

Projects:
* Build a new lighthouse:
  * Island is due for a new light house and rebuilding it will help with
    monitoring movement in and out of the island, expect it to provide long
    term value as the world changes
  * Aim for the design to look like an airport tower
  * Would like to have a RADAR and marine radios in it
  * Island wide project, get as many people involved as possible
  * Would like builders to present suggested designs
  * Aiming to get equipment by donation or at a reduced price
  * Setting up a fundraiser to collect funds
  * Project is starting immediately
* Health project:
  * Details tomorrow

Rules Summary
-------------

Here's my attempt to remove the legalese for the [new
rules](https://www.facebook.com/permalink.php?story_fbid=1292449427625490&id=328195770717532):

1. Movement on and off the island continues to be restricted and must be
   approved by the municipality.
2. Seafarers working on cargo boats must remain on the boats.
   1. Boats wishing to move around the municipality must inform the port
      captain.
   2. Boats not adhering to this will be seized and the crew quarantined
3. SINAGER laws apply to anyone not following the ordinance.
   1. Boat captains carrying people who are not crew will have their license
      revoked.
4. Returning residents to the island must be coordinated and approved by the
   municipality.
5. The airport runway will be blocked 18:00 - 06:00 daily to allow security
   personnel to focus on maritime entrances.
6. Free movement is permtited between 07:00 and 19:00:
   1. Employers must provide face masks, hand sanitiser and soap for hand
      washing. Employees must use these protective measures.
   2. Companies providing customer service must:
      1. Avoid crowding by limiting access
      2. Leave a distance of at least 1.5 meters between customers
      3. Provide hand sanitiser to customers
   3. Restaurants must ensure customers at tables are at least 1.5 meters apart
      1. Restaurants are forbidden from serving alcohol
   4. The following are forbidden from opening to avoid crowds gathering:
      1. Businesses dedicated to the sale of alcoholic beverages,
      2. Bars
      3. Canteens
      4. Tobacconists
      5. Discotheques
   5. Public transport must use a chlorine based solution to disinfect doors
       (inside and outside), dashboards, seats and other areas touched by hands.
      1. Visibly ill people and those with respiratory conditions must be
         reported
      2. People with respiratory conditions may not be transported
   6. Health personnel have priority for transport
   7. Mototaxis (tuk tuks) have a maximum of 2 passengers
   8. Churches may have no more than 50% of their normal congregation
      1. All attendees must wear masks
      2. Social distancing rules (1.5 meters) must be practiced
   9. No more than 50 people may attend sporting events
   10. Educational facilities are bound by the ministry of education rules
   11. Alcoholic sales are prohibited
7. Curfew from 20:00 - 07:00 daily
   1. Vehicles operating outside these hours will be confiscated
8. If you have any of the following symptoms you must remain at home at report
   to Dr Alejandro Manzanares at **+504-9700-1013**:
   1. Flu symptoms
   2. Cough
   3. Sore throat
9. Businesses failing to comply will be sanctioned
   1. For breach of schedule:
      1. HNL 2,500 fine for the first infraction
      2. HNL 5,000 for the second infraction
      3. Suspension of business for 30 days for the third infraction
   2. For breach of biosecurity measures (masks, hand sanitiser and distance
      requirements):
      1. HNL 2,500 fine for the first infraction
      2. HNL 5,000 for the second infraction
      3. Suspension of business for 30 days for the third infraction
   3. For altering prices on the basic necessities and basic basket (price
      gouging):
      1. HNL 2,500 fine for the first infraction
      2. HNL 5,000 for the second infraction
      3. Suspension of business for 30 days for the third infraction
   4. Cargo ships not complying with biosafety measures:
      1. HNL 2,500 fine for the first infraction
      2. HNL 5,000 for the second infraction
      3. Suspension of operating permit for 30 days for the third infraction
   5. For selling alcoholic beverages:
      1. HNL 2,500 fine for the first infraction
      2. HNL 5,000 for the second infraction
      3. Suspension of business for 30 days for the third infraction
10. Compliance monitored by Municipal Police, the National Police and the
    Honduran Naval Force
11. This is in effect 2020-05-18 to 2020-05-31.
